# Daily Papers - 2023-07-25

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-25)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [3D-LLM: Injecting the 3D World into Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.12981)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.12981](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12981)

**Authors**: Yining Hong, Haoyu Zhen, Peihao Chen, Shuhong Zheng, Yilun Du, Zhenfang Chen, Chuang Gan

**Published**: 2023-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 40

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) and Vision-Language Models (VLMs) have been
proven to excel at multiple tasks, such as commonsense reasoning. Powerful as
these models can be, they are not grounded in the 3D physical world, which
involves richer concepts such as spatial relationships, affordances, physics,
layout, and so on. In this work, we propose to inject the 3D world into large
language models and introduce a whole new family of 3D-LLMs. Specifically,
3D-LLMs can take 3D point clouds and their features as input and perform a
diverse set of 3D-related tasks, including captioning, dense captioning, 3D
question answering, task decomposition, 3D grounding, 3D-assisted dialog,
navigation, and so on. Using three types of prompting mechanisms that we
design, we are able to collect over 300k 3D-language data covering these tasks.
To efficiently train 3D-LLMs, we first utilize a 3D feature extractor that
obtains 3D features from rendered multi- view images. Then, we use 2D VLMs as
our backbones to train our 3D-LLMs. By introducing a 3D localization mechanism,
3D-LLMs can better capture 3D spatial information. Experiments on ScanQA show
that our model outperforms state-of-the-art baselines by a large margin (e.g.,
the BLEU-1 score surpasses state-of-the-art score by 9%). Furthermore,
experiments on our held-in datasets for 3D captioning, task composition, and
3D-assisted dialogue show that our model outperforms 2D VLMs. Qualitative
examples also show that our model could perform more tasks beyond the scope of
existing LLMs and VLMs. Project Page: : https://vis-www.cs.umass.edu/3dllm/.

---

## 2. [A Real-World WebAgent with Planning, Long Context Understanding, and
  Program Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.12856)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.12856](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12856)

**Authors**: Izzeddin Gur, Hiroki Furuta, Austin Huang, Mustafa Safdari, Yutaka Matsuo, Douglas Eck, Aleksandra Faust

**Published**: 2023-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 37

### Abstract

Pre-trained large language models (LLMs) have recently achieved better
generalization and sample efficiency in autonomous web navigation. However, the
performance on real-world websites has still suffered from (1) open domainness,
(2) limited context length, and (3) lack of inductive bias on HTML. We
introduce WebAgent, an LLM-driven agent that can complete the tasks on real
websites following natural language instructions. WebAgent plans ahead by
decomposing instructions into canonical sub-instructions, summarizes long HTML
documents into task-relevant snippets, and acts on websites via generated
Python programs from those. We design WebAgent with Flan-U-PaLM, for grounded
code generation, and HTML-T5, new pre-trained LLMs for long HTML documents
using local and global attention mechanisms and a mixture of long-span
denoising objectives, for planning and summarization. We empirically
demonstrate that our recipe improves the success on a real website by over 50%,
and that HTML-T5 is the best model to solve HTML-based tasks; achieving 14.9%
higher success rate than prior SoTA on the MiniWoB web navigation benchmark and
better accuracy on offline task planning evaluation.

---

## 3. [Interpolating between Images with Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.12560)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.12560](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12560)

**Authors**: Clinton J. Wang, Polina Golland

**Published**: 2023-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/clintonjwang/controlnet)

### Abstract

One little-explored frontier of image generation and editing is the task of
interpolating between two input images, a feature missing from all currently
deployed image generation pipelines. We argue that such a feature can expand
the creative applications of such models, and propose a method for zero-shot
interpolation using latent diffusion models. We apply interpolation in the
latent space at a sequence of decreasing noise levels, then perform denoising
conditioned on interpolated text embeddings derived from textual inversion and
(optionally) subject poses. For greater consistency, or to specify additional
criteria, we can generate several candidates and use CLIP to select the highest
quality image. We obtain convincing interpolations across diverse subject
poses, image styles, and image content, and show that standard quantitative
metrics such as FID are insufficient to measure the quality of an
interpolation. Code and data are available at
https://clintonjwang.github.io/interpolation.

---

## 4. [Prompting Large Language Models with Speech Recognition Abilities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.11795)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.11795](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.11795)

**Authors**: Yassir Fathullah, Chunyang Wu, Egor Lakomkin, Junteng Jia, Yuan Shangguan, Ke Li, Jinxi Guo, Wenhan Xiong, Jay Mahadeokar, Ozlem Kalinli, Christian Fuegen, Mike Seltzer

**Published**: 2023-07-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Large language models have proven themselves highly flexible, able to solve a
wide range of generative tasks, such as abstractive summarization and
open-ended question answering. In this paper we extend the capabilities of LLMs
by directly attaching a small audio encoder allowing it to perform speech
recognition. By directly prepending a sequence of audial embeddings to the text
token embeddings, the LLM can be converted to an automatic speech recognition
(ASR) system, and be used in the exact same manner as its textual counterpart.
Experiments on Multilingual LibriSpeech (MLS) show that incorporating a
conformer encoder into the open sourced LLaMA-7B allows it to outperform
monolingual baselines by 18% and perform multilingual speech recognition
despite LLaMA being trained overwhelmingly on English text. Furthermore, we
perform ablation studies to investigate whether the LLM can be completely
frozen during training to maintain its original capabilities, scaling up the
audio encoder, and increasing the audio encoder striding to generate fewer
embeddings. The results from these studies show that multilingual ASR is
possible even when the LLM is frozen or when strides of almost 1 second are
used in the audio encoder opening up the possibility for LLMs to operate on
long-form audio.

---

## 5. [PUMA: Secure Inference of LLaMA-7B in Five Minutes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.12533)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.12533](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12533)

**Authors**: Ye Dong, Wen-jie Lu, Yancheng Zheng, Haoqi Wu, Derun Zhao, Jin Tan, Zhicong Huang, Cheng Hong, Tao Wei, Wenguang Cheng

**Published**: 2023-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/secretflow/spu)

### Abstract

With ChatGPT as a representative, tons of companies have began to provide
services based on large Transformers models. However, using such a service
inevitably leak users' prompts to the model provider. Previous studies have
studied secure inference for Transformer models using secure multiparty
computation (MPC), where model parameters and clients' prompts are kept secret.
Despite this, these frameworks are still limited in terms of model performance,
efficiency, and deployment. To address these limitations, we propose framework
PUMA to enable fast and secure Transformer model inference. Our framework
designs high quality approximations for expensive functions, such as GeLU and
Softmax, which significantly reduce the cost of secure inference while
preserving the model performance. Additionally, we design secure Embedding and
LayerNorm procedures that faithfully implement the desired functionality
without undermining the Transformer architecture. PUMA is about 2x faster than
the state-of-the-art MPC framework MPCFORMER(ICLR 2023) and has similar
accuracy as plaintext models without fine-tuning (which the previous works
failed to achieve).
  One more thing, PUMA can evaluate LLaMA-7B in around 5 minutes to generate 1
token. To our best knowledge, this is the first time that a model with such a
parameter size is able to be evaluated under MPC. PUMA has been open-sourced in
the Github repository of SecretFlow-SPU.

---

## 6. [Question Decomposition Improves the Faithfulness of Model-Generated
  Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.11768)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.11768](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.11768)

**Authors**: Ansh Radhakrishnan, Karina Nguyen, Anna Chen, Carol Chen, Carson Denison, Danny Hernandez, Esin Durmus, Evan Hubinger, Jackson Kernion, Kamilė Lukošiūtė, Newton Cheng, Nicholas Joseph, Nicholas Schiefer, Oliver Rausch, Sam McCandlish, Sheer El Showk, Tamera Lanham, Tim Maxwell, Venkatesa Chandrasekaran, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Jared Kaplan, Jan Brauner, Samuel R. Bowman, Ethan Perez

**Published**: 2023-07-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/anthropics/decompositionfaithfulnesspaper)

### Abstract

As large language models (LLMs) perform more difficult tasks, it becomes
harder to verify the correctness and safety of their behavior. One approach to
help with this issue is to prompt LLMs to externalize their reasoning, e.g., by
having them generate step-by-step reasoning as they answer a question
(Chain-of-Thought; CoT). The reasoning may enable us to check the process that
models use to perform tasks. However, this approach relies on the stated
reasoning faithfully reflecting the model's actual reasoning, which is not
always the case. To improve over the faithfulness of CoT reasoning, we have
models generate reasoning by decomposing questions into subquestions.
Decomposition-based methods achieve strong performance on question-answering
tasks, sometimes approaching that of CoT while improving the faithfulness of
the model's stated reasoning on several recently-proposed metrics. By forcing
the model to answer simpler subquestions in separate contexts, we greatly
increase the faithfulness of model-generated reasoning over CoT, while still
achieving some of the performance gains of CoT. Our results show it is possible
to improve the faithfulness of model-generated reasoning; continued
improvements may lead to reasoning that enables us to verify the correctness
and safety of LLM behavior.

---

## 7. [Evaluating the Ripple Effects of Knowledge Editing in Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.12976)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.12976](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12976)

**Authors**: Roi Cohen, Eden Biran, Ori Yoran, Amir Globerson, Mor Geva

**Published**: 2023-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/edenbiran/rippleedits)

### Abstract

Modern language models capture a large body of factual knowledge. However,
some facts can be incorrectly induced or become obsolete over time, resulting
in factually incorrect generations. This has led to the development of various
editing methods that allow updating facts encoded by the model. Evaluation of
these methods has primarily focused on testing whether an individual fact has
been successfully injected, and if similar predictions for other subjects have
not changed. Here we argue that such evaluation is limited, since injecting one
fact (e.g. ``Jack Depp is the son of Johnny Depp'') introduces a ``ripple
effect'' in the form of additional facts that the model needs to update
(e.g.``Jack Depp is the sibling of Lily-Rose Depp''). To address this issue, we
propose a novel set of evaluation criteria that consider the implications of an
edit on related facts. Using these criteria, we then construct , a
diagnostic benchmark of 5K factual edits, capturing a variety of types of
ripple effects. We evaluate prominent editing methods on , showing
that current methods fail to introduce consistent changes in the model's
knowledge. In addition, we find that a simple in-context editing baseline
obtains the best scores on our benchmark, suggesting a promising research
direction for model editing.

---

## 8. [RLCD: Reinforcement Learning from Contrast Distillation for Language
  Model Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.12950)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.12950](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12950)

**Authors**: Kevin Yang, Dan Klein, Asli Celikyilmaz, Nanyun Peng, Yuandong Tian

**Published**: 2023-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/rlcd)

### Abstract

We propose Reinforcement Learning from Contrast Distillation (RLCD), a method
for aligning language models to follow natural language principles without
using human feedback. RLCD trains a preference model using simulated preference
pairs that contain both a high-quality and low-quality example, generated using
contrasting positive and negative prompts. The preference model is then used to
improve a base unaligned language model via reinforcement learning.
Empirically, RLCD outperforms RLAIF (Bai et al., 2022b) and context
distillation (Huang et al., 2022) baselines across three diverse alignment
tasks--harmlessness, helpfulness, and story outline generation--and on both 7B
and 30B model scales for preference data simulation.

---

## 9. [Optimized Network Architectures for Large Language Model Training with
  Billions of Parameters](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.12169)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.12169](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12169)

**Authors**: Weiyang Wang, Manya Ghobadi, Kayvon Shakeri, Ying Zhang, Naader Hasani

**Published**: 2023-07-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

This paper challenges the well-established paradigm for building any-to-any
networks for training Large Language Models (LLMs). We show that LLMs exhibit a
unique communication pattern where only small groups of GPUs require
high-bandwidth any-to-any communication within them, to achieve near-optimal
training performance. Across these groups of GPUs, the communication is
insignificant, sparse, and homogeneous. We propose a new network architecture
that closely resembles the communication requirement of LLMs. Our architecture
partitions the cluster into sets of GPUs interconnected with non-blocking
any-to-any high-bandwidth interconnects that we call HB domains. Across the HB
domains, the network only connects GPUs with communication demands. We call
this network a "rail-only" connection, and show that our proposed architecture
reduces the network cost by up to 75% compared to the state-of-the-art
any-to-any Clos networks without compromising the performance of LLM training.

---

## 10. [MC-JEPA: A Joint-Embedding Predictive Architecture for Self-Supervised
  Learning of Motion and Content Features](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.12698)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.12698](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12698)

**Authors**: Adrien Bardes, Jean Ponce, Yann LeCun

**Published**: 2023-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Self-supervised learning of visual representations has been focusing on
learning content features, which do not capture object motion or location, and
focus on identifying and differentiating objects in images and videos. On the
other hand, optical flow estimation is a task that does not involve
understanding the content of the images on which it is estimated. We unify the
two approaches and introduce MC-JEPA, a joint-embedding predictive architecture
and self-supervised learning approach to jointly learn optical flow and content
features within a shared encoder, demonstrating that the two associated
objectives; the optical flow estimation objective and the self-supervised
learning objective; benefit from each other and thus learn content features
that incorporate motion information. The proposed approach achieves performance
on-par with existing unsupervised optical flow benchmarks, as well as with
common self-supervised learning approaches on downstream tasks such as semantic
segmentation of images and videos.

---

## 11. [Less is More: Focus Attention for Efficient DETR](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.12612)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.12612](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12612)

**Authors**: Dehua Zheng, Wenhui Dong, Hailin Hu, Xinghao Chen, Yunhe Wang

**Published**: 2023-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

DETR-like models have significantly boosted the performance of detectors and
even outperformed classical convolutional models. However, all tokens are
treated equally without discrimination brings a redundant computational burden
in the traditional encoder structure. The recent sparsification strategies
exploit a subset of informative tokens to reduce attention complexity
maintaining performance through the sparse encoder. But these methods tend to
rely on unreliable model statistics. Moreover, simply reducing the token
population hinders the detection performance to a large extent, limiting the
application of these sparse models. We propose Focus-DETR, which focuses
attention on more informative tokens for a better trade-off between computation
efficiency and model accuracy. Specifically, we reconstruct the encoder with
dual attention, which includes a token scoring mechanism that considers both
localization and category semantic information of the objects from multi-scale
feature maps. We efficiently abandon the background queries and enhance the
semantic interaction of the fine-grained object queries based on the scores.
Compared with the state-of-the-art sparse DETR-like detectors under the same
setting, our Focus-DETR gets comparable complexity while achieving 50.4AP
(+2.2) on COCO. The code is available at
https://github.com/huawei-noah/noah-research/tree/master/Focus-DETR and
https://gitee.com/mindspore/models/tree/master/research/cv/Focus-DETR.

---

## 12. [Multiscale Video Pretraining for Long-Term Activity Forecasting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.12854)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.12854](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12854)

**Authors**: Reuben Tan, Matthias De Lange, Michael Iuzzolino, Bryan A. Plummer, Kate Saenko, Karl Ridgeway, Lorenzo Torresani

**Published**: 2023-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Long-term activity forecasting is an especially challenging research problem
because it requires understanding the temporal relationships between observed
actions, as well as the variability and complexity of human activities. Despite
relying on strong supervision via expensive human annotations, state-of-the-art
forecasting approaches often generalize poorly to unseen data. To alleviate
this issue, we propose Multiscale Video Pretraining (MVP), a novel
self-supervised pretraining approach that learns robust representations for
forecasting by learning to predict contextualized representations of future
video clips over multiple timescales. MVP is based on our observation that
actions in videos have a multiscale nature, where atomic actions typically
occur at a short timescale and more complex actions may span longer timescales.
We compare MVP to state-of-the-art self-supervised video learning approaches on
downstream long-term forecasting tasks including long-term action anticipation
and video summary prediction. Our comprehensive experiments across the Ego4D
and Epic-Kitchens-55/100 datasets demonstrate that MVP out-performs
state-of-the-art methods by significant margins. Notably, MVP obtains a
relative performance gain of over 20% accuracy in video summary forecasting
over existing methods.

---
