# Daily Papers - 2023-07-20

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-20)

Total papers: 10

---

## 1. [Challenges and Applications of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.10169)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.10169](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.10169)

**Authors**: Jean Kaddour, Joshua Harris, Maximilian Mozes, Herbie Bradley, Roberta Raileanu, Robert McHardy

**Published**: 2023-07-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 51

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) went from non-existent to ubiquitous in the
machine learning discourse within a few years. Due to the fast pace of the
field, it is difficult to identify the remaining challenges and already
fruitful application areas. In this paper, we aim to establish a systematic set
of open problems and application successes so that ML researchers can
comprehend the field's current state more quickly and become productive.

---

## 2. [On the Origin of LLMs: An Evolutionary Tree and Graph for 15,821 Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.09793)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.09793](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09793)

**Authors**: Sarah Gao, Andrew Kean Gao

**Published**: 2023-07-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 48

### Abstract

Since late 2022, Large Language Models (LLMs) have become very prominent with
LLMs like ChatGPT and Bard receiving millions of users. Hundreds of new LLMs
are announced each week, many of which are deposited to Hugging Face, a
repository of machine learning models and datasets. To date, nearly 16,000 Text
Generation models have been uploaded to the site. Given the huge influx of
LLMs, it is of interest to know which LLM backbones, settings, training
methods, and families are popular or trending. However, there is no
comprehensive index of LLMs available. We take advantage of the relatively
systematic nomenclature of Hugging Face LLMs to perform hierarchical clustering
and identify communities amongst LLMs using n-grams and term frequency-inverse
document frequency. Our methods successfully identify families of LLMs and
accurately cluster LLMs into meaningful subgroups. We present a public web
application to navigate and explore Constellation, our atlas of 15,821 LLMs.
Constellation rapidly generates a variety of visualizations, namely
dendrograms, graphs, word clouds, and scatter plots. Constellation is available
at the following link: https://constellation.sites.stanford.edu/.

---

## 3. [FABRIC: Personalizing Diffusion Models with Iterative Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.10159)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.10159](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.10159)

**Authors**: Dimitri von Rütte, Elisabetta Fedele, Jonathan Thomm, Lukas Wolf

**Published**: 2023-07-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sd-fabric/fabric)

### Abstract

In an era where visual content generation is increasingly driven by machine
learning, the integration of human feedback into generative models presents
significant opportunities for enhancing user experience and output quality.
This study explores strategies for incorporating iterative human feedback into
the generative process of diffusion-based text-to-image models. We propose
FABRIC, a training-free approach applicable to a wide range of popular
diffusion models, which exploits the self-attention layer present in the most
widely used architectures to condition the diffusion process on a set of
feedback images. To ensure a rigorous assessment of our approach, we introduce
a comprehensive evaluation methodology, offering a robust mechanism to quantify
the performance of generative visual models that integrate human feedback. We
show that generation results improve over multiple rounds of iterative feedback
through exhaustive analysis, implicitly optimizing arbitrary user preferences.
The potential applications of these findings extend to fields such as
personalized content creation and customization.

---

## 4. [Text2Layer: Layered Image Generation using Latent Diffusion Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.09781)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.09781](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09781)

**Authors**: Xinyang Zhang, Wentian Zhao, Xin Lu, Jeff Chien

**Published**: 2023-07-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Layer compositing is one of the most popular image editing workflows among
both amateurs and professionals. Motivated by the success of diffusion models,
we explore layer compositing from a layered image generation perspective.
Instead of generating an image, we propose to generate background, foreground,
layer mask, and the composed image simultaneously. To achieve layered image
generation, we train an autoencoder that is able to reconstruct layered images
and train diffusion models on the latent representation. One benefit of the
proposed problem is to enable better compositing workflows in addition to the
high-quality image output. Another benefit is producing higher-quality layer
masks compared to masks produced by a separate step of image segmentation.
Experimental results show that the proposed method is able to generate
high-quality layered images and initiates a benchmark for future work.

---

## 5. [Towards A Unified Agent with Foundation Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.09668)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.09668](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09668)

**Authors**: Norman Di Palo, Arunkumar Byravan, Leonard Hasenclever, Markus Wulfmeier, Nicolas Heess, Martin Riedmiller

**Published**: 2023-07-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Language Models and Vision Language Models have recently demonstrated
unprecedented capabilities in terms of understanding human intentions,
reasoning, scene understanding, and planning-like behaviour, in text form,
among many others. In this work, we investigate how to embed and leverage such
abilities in Reinforcement Learning (RL) agents. We design a framework that
uses language as the core reasoning tool, exploring how this enables an agent
to tackle a series of fundamental RL challenges, such as efficient exploration,
reusing experience data, scheduling skills, and learning from observations,
which traditionally require separate, vertically designed algorithms. We test
our method on a sparse-reward simulated robotic manipulation environment, where
a robot needs to stack a set of objects. We demonstrate substantial performance
improvements over baselines in exploration efficiency and ability to reuse data
from offline datasets, and illustrate how to reuse learned skills to solve
novel tasks or imitate videos of human experts.

---

## 6. [DialogStudio: Towards Richest and Most Diverse Unified Dataset
  Collection for Conversational AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.10172)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.10172](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.10172)

**Authors**: Jianguo Zhang, Kun Qian, Zhiwei Liu, Shelby Heinecke, Rui Meng, Ye Liu, Zhou Yu, Huan Wang, Silvio Savarese, Caiming Xiong

**Published**: 2023-07-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/salesforce/DialogStudio)

### Abstract

Despite advancements in conversational AI, language models encounter
challenges to handle diverse conversational tasks, and existing dialogue
dataset collections often lack diversity and comprehensiveness. To tackle these
issues, we introduce DialogStudio: the largest and most diverse collection of
dialogue datasets, unified under a consistent format while preserving their
original information. Our collection encompasses data from open-domain
dialogues, task-oriented dialogues, natural language understanding,
conversational recommendation, dialogue summarization, and knowledge-grounded
dialogues, making it an incredibly rich and diverse resource for dialogue
research and model training. To further enhance the utility of DialogStudio, we
identify the licenses for each dataset and design domain-aware prompts for
selected dialogues to facilitate instruction-aware fine-tuning. Furthermore, we
develop conversational AI models using the dataset collection, and our
experiments in both zero-shot and few-shot learning scenarios demonstrate the
superiority of DialogStudio. To improve transparency and support dataset and
task-based research, as well as language model pre-training, all datasets,
licenses, codes, and models associated with DialogStudio are made publicly
accessible at https://github.com/salesforce/DialogStudio

---

## 7. [Android in the Wild: A Large-Scale Dataset for Android Device Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.10088)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.10088](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.10088)

**Authors**: Christopher Rawles, Alice Li, Daniel Rodriguez, Oriana Riva, Timothy Lillicrap

**Published**: 2023-07-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

There is a growing interest in device-control systems that can interpret
human natural language instructions and execute them on a digital device by
directly controlling its user interface. We present a dataset for
device-control research, Android in the Wild (AITW), which is orders of
magnitude larger than current datasets. The dataset contains human
demonstrations of device interactions, including the screens and actions, and
corresponding natural language instructions. It consists of 715k episodes
spanning 30k unique instructions, four versions of Android (v10-13),and eight
device types (Pixel 2 XL to Pixel 6) with varying screen resolutions. It
contains multi-step tasks that require semantic understanding of language and
visual context. This dataset poses a new challenge: actions available through
the user interface must be inferred from their visual appearance. And, instead
of simple UI element-based actions, the action space consists of precise
gestures (e.g., horizontal scrolls to operate carousel widgets). We organize
our dataset to encourage robustness analysis of device-control systems, i.e.,
how well a system performs in the presence of new task descriptions, new
applications, or new platform versions. We develop two agents and report
performance across the dataset. The dataset is available at
https://github.com/google-research/google-research/tree/master/android_in_the_wild.

---

## 8. [LLMs as Workers in Human-Computational Algorithms? Replicating
  Crowdsourcing Pipelines with LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.10168)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.10168](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.10168)

**Authors**: Tongshuang Wu, Haiyi Zhu, Maya Albayrak, Alexis Axon, Amanda Bertsch, Wenxing Deng, Ziqi Ding, Bill Guo, Sireesh Gururaja, Tzu-Sheng Kuo, Jenny T. Liang, Ryan Liu, Ihita Mandal, Jeremiah Milbauer, Xiaolin Ni, Namrata Padmanabhan, Subhashini Ramkumar, Alexis Sudjianto, Jordan Taylor, Ying-Jui Tseng, Patricia Vaidos, Zhijin Wu, Wei Wu, Chenyang Yang

**Published**: 2023-07-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

LLMs have shown promise in replicating human-like behavior in crowdsourcing
tasks that were previously thought to be exclusive to human abilities. However,
current efforts focus mainly on simple atomic tasks. We explore whether LLMs
can replicate more complex crowdsourcing pipelines. We find that modern LLMs
can simulate some of crowdworkers' abilities in these "human computation
algorithms," but the level of success is variable and influenced by requesters'
understanding of LLM capabilities, the specific skills required for sub-tasks,
and the optimal interaction modality for performing these sub-tasks. We reflect
on human and LLMs' different sensitivities to instructions, stress the
importance of enabling human-facing safeguards for LLMs, and discuss the
potential of training humans and LLMs with complementary skill sets. Crucially,
we show that replicating crowdsourcing pipelines offers a valuable platform to
investigate (1) the relative strengths of LLMs on different tasks (by
cross-comparing their performances on sub-tasks) and (2) LLMs' potential in
complex tasks, where they can complete part of the tasks while leaving others
to humans.

---

## 9. [DNA-Rendering: A Diverse Neural Actor Repository for High-Fidelity
  Human-centric Rendering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.10173)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.10173](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.10173)

**Authors**: Wei Cheng, Ruixiang Chen, Wanqi Yin, Siming Fan, Keyu Chen, Honglin He, Huiwen Luo, Zhongang Cai, Jingbo Wang, Zhengming Yu, Zhengyu Lin, Daxuan Ren, Lei Yang, Ziwei Liu, Chen Change Loy, Chen Qian, Wayne Wu, Dahua Lin, Bo Dai, Kwan-Yee Lin

**Published**: 2023-07-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/DNA-Rendering/DNA-Rendering)

### Abstract

Realistic human-centric rendering plays a key role in both computer vision
and computer graphics. Rapid progress has been made in the algorithm aspect
over the years, yet existing human-centric rendering datasets and benchmarks
are rather impoverished in terms of diversity, which are crucial for rendering
effect. Researchers are usually constrained to explore and evaluate a small set
of rendering problems on current datasets, while real-world applications
require methods to be robust across different scenarios. In this work, we
present DNA-Rendering, a large-scale, high-fidelity repository of human
performance data for neural actor rendering. DNA-Rendering presents several
alluring attributes. First, our dataset contains over 1500 human subjects, 5000
motion sequences, and 67.5M frames' data volume. Second, we provide rich assets
for each subject -- 2D/3D human body keypoints, foreground masks, SMPLX models,
cloth/accessory materials, multi-view images, and videos. These assets boost
the current method's accuracy on downstream rendering tasks. Third, we
construct a professional multi-view system to capture data, which contains 60
synchronous cameras with max 4096 x 3000 resolution, 15 fps speed, and stern
camera calibration steps, ensuring high-quality resources for task training and
evaluation. Along with the dataset, we provide a large-scale and quantitative
benchmark in full-scale, with multiple tasks to evaluate the existing progress
of novel view synthesis, novel pose animation synthesis, and novel identity
rendering methods. In this manuscript, we describe our DNA-Rendering effort as
a revealing of new observations, challenges, and future directions to
human-centric rendering. The dataset, code, and benchmarks will be publicly
available at https://dna-rendering.github.io/

---

## 10. [Promoting Exploration in Memory-Augmented Adam using Critical Momenta](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.09638)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.09638](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09638)

**Authors**: Pranshu Malviya, Gonçalo Mordido, Aristide Baratin, Reza Babanezhad Harikandeh, Simon Lacoste-Julien, Razvan Pascanu, Sarath Chandar

**Published**: 2023-07-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/chandar-lab/cmoptimizer)

### Abstract

Adaptive gradient-based optimizers, particularly Adam, have left their mark
in training large-scale deep learning models. The strength of such optimizers
is that they exhibit fast convergence while being more robust to hyperparameter
choice. However, they often generalize worse than non-adaptive methods. Recent
studies have tied this performance gap to flat minima selection: adaptive
methods tend to find solutions in sharper basins of the loss landscape, which
in turn hurts generalization. To overcome this issue, we propose a new
memory-augmented version of Adam that promotes exploration towards flatter
minima by using a buffer of critical momentum terms during training.
Intuitively, the use of the buffer makes the optimizer overshoot outside the
basin of attraction if it is not wide enough. We empirically show that our
method improves the performance of several variants of Adam on standard
supervised language modelling and image classification tasks.

---
