# Daily Papers - 2023-07-04

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-04)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [Segment Anything Meets Point Tracking](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.01197)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.01197](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01197)

**Authors**: Frano Rajič, Lei Ke, Yu-Wing Tai, Chi-Keung Tang, Martin Danelljan, Fisher Yu

**Published**: 2023-07-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 36

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/syscv/sam-pt)

### Abstract

The Segment Anything Model (SAM) has established itself as a powerful
zero-shot image segmentation model, employing interactive prompts such as
points to generate masks. This paper presents SAM-PT, a method extending SAM's
capability to tracking and segmenting anything in dynamic videos. SAM-PT
leverages robust and sparse point selection and propagation techniques for mask
generation, demonstrating that a SAM-based segmentation tracker can yield
strong zero-shot performance across popular video object segmentation
benchmarks, including DAVIS, YouTube-VOS, and MOSE. Compared to traditional
object-centric mask propagation strategies, we uniquely use point propagation
to exploit local structure information that is agnostic to object semantics. We
highlight the merits of point-based tracking through direct evaluation on the
zero-shot open-world Unidentified Video Objects (UVO) benchmark. To further
enhance our approach, we utilize K-Medoids clustering for point initialization
and track both positive and negative points to clearly distinguish the target
object. We also employ multiple mask decoding passes for mask refinement and
devise a point re-initialization strategy to improve tracking accuracy. Our
code integrates different point trackers and video segmentation benchmarks and
will be released at https://github.com/SysCV/sam-pt.

---

## 2. [LEDITS: Real Image Editing with DDPM Inversion and Semantic Guidance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.00522)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.00522](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.00522)

**Authors**: Linoy Tsaban, Apolinário Passos

**Published**: 2023-07-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

Recent large-scale text-guided diffusion models provide powerful
image-generation capabilities. Currently, a significant effort is given to
enable the modification of these images using text only as means to offer
intuitive and versatile editing. However, editing proves to be difficult for
these generative models due to the inherent nature of editing techniques, which
involves preserving certain content from the original image. Conversely, in
text-based models, even minor modifications to the text prompt frequently
result in an entirely distinct result, making attaining one-shot generation
that accurately corresponds to the users intent exceedingly challenging. In
addition, to edit a real image using these state-of-the-art tools, one must
first invert the image into the pre-trained models domain - adding another
factor affecting the edit quality, as well as latency. In this exploratory
report, we propose LEDITS - a combined lightweight approach for real-image
editing, incorporating the Edit Friendly DDPM inversion technique with Semantic
Guidance, thus extending Semantic Guidance to real image editing, while
harnessing the editing capabilities of DDPM inversion as well. This approach
achieves versatile edits, both subtle and extensive as well as alterations in
composition and style, while requiring no optimization nor extensions to the
architecture.

---

## 3. [DisCo: Disentangled Control for Referring Human Dance Generation in Real
  World](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.00040)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.00040](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.00040)

**Authors**: Tan Wang, Linjie Li, Kevin Lin, Chung-Ching Lin, Zhengyuan Yang, Hanwang Zhang, Zicheng Liu, Lijuan Wang

**Published**: 2023-06-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Wangt-CN/DisCo)

### Abstract

Generative AI has made significant strides in computer vision, particularly
in image/video synthesis conditioned on text descriptions. Despite the
advancements, it remains challenging especially in the generation of
human-centric content such as dance synthesis. Existing dance synthesis methods
struggle with the gap between synthesized content and real-world dance
scenarios. In this paper, we define a new problem setting: Referring Human
Dance Generation, which focuses on real-world dance scenarios with three
important properties: (i) Faithfulness: the synthesis should retain the
appearance of both human subject foreground and background from the reference
image, and precisely follow the target pose; (ii) Generalizability: the model
should generalize to unseen human subjects, backgrounds, and poses; (iii)
Compositionality: it should allow for composition of seen/unseen subjects,
backgrounds, and poses from different sources. To address these challenges, we
introduce a novel approach, DISCO, which includes a novel model architecture
with disentangled control to improve the faithfulness and compositionality of
dance synthesis, and an effective human attribute pre-training for better
generalizability to unseen humans. Extensive qualitative and quantitative
results demonstrate that DISCO can generate high-quality human dance images and
videos with diverse appearances and flexible motions. Code, demo, video and
visualization are available at: https://disco-dance.github.io/.

---

## 4. [Personality Traits in Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.00184)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.00184](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.00184)

**Authors**: Mustafa Safdari, Greg Serapio-García, Clément Crepy, Stephen Fitz, Peter Romero, Luning Sun, Marwa Abdulhai, Aleksandra Faust, Maja Matarić

**Published**: 2023-07-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

The advent of large language models (LLMs) has revolutionized natural
language processing, enabling the generation of coherent and contextually
relevant text. As LLMs increasingly power conversational agents, the
synthesized personality embedded in these models by virtue of their training on
large amounts of human-generated data draws attention. Since personality is an
important factor determining the effectiveness of communication, we present a
comprehensive method for administering validated psychometric tests and
quantifying, analyzing, and shaping personality traits exhibited in text
generated from widely-used LLMs. We find that: 1) personality simulated in the
outputs of some LLMs (under specific prompting configurations) is reliable and
valid; 2) evidence of reliability and validity of LLM-simulated personality is
stronger for larger and instruction fine-tuned models; and 3) personality in
LLM outputs can be shaped along desired dimensions to mimic specific
personality profiles. We also discuss potential applications and ethical
implications of our measurement and shaping framework, especially regarding
responsible use of LLMs.

---

## 5. [JourneyDB: A Benchmark for Generative Image Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.00716)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.00716](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.00716)

**Authors**: Junting Pan, Keqiang Sun, Yuying Ge, Hao Li, Haodong Duan, Xiaoshi Wu, Renrui Zhang, Aojun Zhou, Zipeng Qin, Yi Wang, Jifeng Dai, Yu Qiao, Hongsheng Li

**Published**: 2023-07-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

While recent advancements in vision-language models have revolutionized
multi-modal understanding, it remains unclear whether they possess the
capabilities of comprehending the generated images. Compared to real data,
synthetic images exhibit a higher degree of diversity in both content and
style, for which there are significant difficulties for the models to fully
apprehend. To this end, we present a large-scale dataset, JourneyDB, for
multi-modal visual understanding in generative images. Our curated dataset
covers 4 million diverse and high-quality generated images paired with the text
prompts used to produce them. We further design 4 benchmarks to quantify the
performance of generated image understanding in terms of both content and style
interpretation. These benchmarks include prompt inversion, style retrieval,
image captioning and visual question answering. Lastly, we assess the
performance of current state-of-the-art multi-modal models when applied to
JourneyDB, and provide an in-depth analysis of their strengths and limitations
in generated content understanding. We hope the proposed dataset and benchmarks
will facilitate the research in the field of generative content understanding.
The dataset will be available on https://journeydb.github.io.

---

## 6. [MVDiffusion: Enabling Holistic Multi-view Image Generation with
  Correspondence-Aware Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.01097)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.01097](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01097)

**Authors**: Shitao Tang, Fuyang Zhang, Jiacheng Chen, Peng Wang, Yasutaka Furukawa

**Published**: 2023-07-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Tangshitao/MVDiffusion)

### Abstract

This paper introduces MVDiffusion, a simple yet effective multi-view image
generation method for scenarios where pixel-to-pixel correspondences are
available, such as perspective crops from panorama or multi-view images given
geometry (depth maps and poses). Unlike prior models that rely on iterative
image warping and inpainting, MVDiffusion concurrently generates all images
with a global awareness, encompassing high resolution and rich content,
effectively addressing the error accumulation prevalent in preceding models.
MVDiffusion specifically incorporates a correspondence-aware attention
mechanism, enabling effective cross-view interaction. This mechanism underpins
three pivotal modules: 1) a generation module that produces low-resolution
images while maintaining global correspondence, 2) an interpolation module that
densifies spatial coverage between images, and 3) a super-resolution module
that upscales into high-resolution outputs. In terms of panoramic imagery,
MVDiffusion can generate high-resolution photorealistic images up to
1024times1024 pixels. For geometry-conditioned multi-view image generation,
MVDiffusion demonstrates the first method capable of generating a textured map
of a scene mesh. The project page is at https://mvdiffusion.github.io.

---

## 7. [Real-time Monocular Full-body Capture in World Space via Sequential
  Proxy-to-Motion Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.01200)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.01200](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01200)

**Authors**: Yuxiang Zhang, Hongwen Zhang, Liangxiao Hu, Hongwei Yi, Shengping Zhang, Yebin Liu

**Published**: 2023-07-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Learning-based approaches to monocular motion capture have recently shown
promising results by learning to regress in a data-driven manner. However, due
to the challenges in data collection and network designs, it remains
challenging for existing solutions to achieve real-time full-body capture while
being accurate in world space. In this work, we contribute a sequential
proxy-to-motion learning scheme together with a proxy dataset of 2D skeleton
sequences and 3D rotational motions in world space. Such proxy data enables us
to build a learning-based network with accurate full-body supervision while
also mitigating the generalization issues. For more accurate and physically
plausible predictions, a contact-aware neural motion descent module is proposed
in our network so that it can be aware of foot-ground contact and motion
misalignment with the proxy observations. Additionally, we share the body-hand
context information in our network for more compatible wrist poses recovery
with the full-body model. With the proposed learning-based solution, we
demonstrate the first real-time monocular full-body capture system with
plausible foot-ground contact in world space. More video results can be found
at our project page: https://liuyebin.com/proxycap.

---

## 8. [Improving Language Plasticity via Pretraining with Active Forgetting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.01163)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.01163](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01163)

**Authors**: Yihong Chen, Kelly Marchisio, Roberta Raileanu, David Ifeoluwa Adelani, Pontus Stenetor, Sebastian Riedel, Mikel Artetx

**Published**: 2023-07-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Pretrained language models (PLMs) are today the primary model for natural
language processing. Despite their impressive downstream performance, it can be
difficult to apply PLMs to new languages, a barrier to making their
capabilities universally accessible. While prior work has shown it possible to
address this issue by learning a new embedding layer for the new language,
doing so is both data and compute inefficient. We propose to use an active
forgetting mechanism during pretraining, as a simple way of creating PLMs that
can quickly adapt to new languages. Concretely, by resetting the embedding
layer every K updates during pretraining, we encourage the PLM to improve its
ability of learning new embeddings within a limited number of updates, similar
to a meta-learning effect. Experiments with RoBERTa show that models pretrained
with our forgetting mechanism not only demonstrate faster convergence during
language adaptation but also outperform standard ones in a low-data regime,
particularly for languages that are distant from English.

---

## 9. [Meta-training with Demonstration Retrieval for Efficient Few-shot
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.00119)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.00119](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.00119)

**Authors**: Aaron Mueller, Kanika Narang, Lambert Mathias, Qifan Wang, Hamed Firooz

**Published**: 2023-06-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Large language models show impressive results on few-shot NLP tasks. However,
these models are memory and computation-intensive. Meta-training allows one to
leverage smaller models for few-shot generalization in a domain-general and
task-agnostic manner; however, these methods alone results in models that may
not have sufficient parameterization or knowledge to adapt quickly to a large
variety of tasks. To overcome this issue, we propose meta-training with
demonstration retrieval, where we use a dense passage retriever to retrieve
semantically similar labeled demonstrations to each example for more varied
supervision. By separating external knowledge from model parameters, we can use
meta-training to train parameter-efficient models that generalize well on a
larger variety of tasks. We construct a meta-training set from UnifiedQA and
CrossFit, and propose a demonstration bank based on UnifiedQA tasks. To our
knowledge, our work is the first to combine retrieval with meta-training, to
use DPR models to retrieve demonstrations, and to leverage demonstrations from
many tasks simultaneously, rather than randomly sampling demonstrations from
the training set of the target task. Our approach outperforms a variety of
targeted parameter-efficient and retrieval-augmented few-shot methods on QA,
NLI, and text classification tasks (including SQuAD, QNLI, and TREC). Our
approach can be meta-trained and fine-tuned quickly on a single GPU.

---

## 10. [Goal Representations for Instruction Following: A Semi-Supervised
  Language Interface to Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.00117)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.00117](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.00117)

**Authors**: Vivek Myers, Andre He, Kuan Fang, Homer Walke, Philippe Hansen-Estruch, Ching-An Cheng, Mihai Jalobeanu, Andrey Kolobov, Anca Dragan, Sergey Levine

**Published**: 2023-06-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Our goal is for robots to follow natural language instructions like "put the
towel next to the microwave." But getting large amounts of labeled data, i.e.
data that contains demonstrations of tasks labeled with the language
instruction, is prohibitive. In contrast, obtaining policies that respond to
image goals is much easier, because any autonomous trial or demonstration can
be labeled in hindsight with its final state as the goal. In this work, we
contribute a method that taps into joint image- and goal- conditioned policies
with language using only a small amount of language data. Prior work has made
progress on this using vision-language models or by jointly training
language-goal-conditioned policies, but so far neither method has scaled
effectively to real-world robot tasks without significant human annotation. Our
method achieves robust performance in the real world by learning an embedding
from the labeled data that aligns language not to the goal image, but rather to
the desired change between the start and goal images that the instruction
corresponds to. We then train a policy on this embedding: the policy benefits
from all the unlabeled data, but the aligned embedding provides an interface
for language to steer the policy. We show instruction following across a
variety of manipulation tasks in different scenes, with generalization to
language instructions outside of the labeled data. Videos and code for our
approach can be found on our website: http://tiny.cc/grif .

---

## 11. [SketchMetaFace: A Learning-based Sketching Interface for High-fidelity
  3D Character Face Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.00804)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.00804](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.00804)

**Authors**: Zhongjin Luo, Dong Du, Heming Zhu, Yizhou Yu, Hongbo Fu, Xiaoguang Han

**Published**: 2023-07-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Modeling 3D avatars benefits various application scenarios such as AR/VR,
gaming, and filming. Character faces contribute significant diversity and
vividity as a vital component of avatars. However, building 3D character face
models usually requires a heavy workload with commercial tools, even for
experienced artists. Various existing sketch-based tools fail to support
amateurs in modeling diverse facial shapes and rich geometric details. In this
paper, we present SketchMetaFace - a sketching system targeting amateur users
to model high-fidelity 3D faces in minutes. We carefully design both the user
interface and the underlying algorithm. First, curvature-aware strokes are
adopted to better support the controllability of carving facial details.
Second, considering the key problem of mapping a 2D sketch map to a 3D model,
we develop a novel learning-based method termed "Implicit and Depth Guided Mesh
Modeling" (IDGMM). It fuses the advantages of mesh, implicit, and depth
representations to achieve high-quality results with high efficiency. In
addition, to further support usability, we present a coarse-to-fine 2D
sketching interface design and a data-driven stroke suggestion tool. User
studies demonstrate the superiority of our system over existing modeling tools
in terms of the ease to use and visual quality of results. Experimental
analyses also show that IDGMM reaches a better trade-off between accuracy and
efficiency. SketchMetaFace are available at
https://zhongjinluo.github.io/SketchMetaFace/.

---
