# Daily Papers - 2023-07-27

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-27)

Total papers: 10

---

## 1. [PanGu-Coder2: Boosting Large Language Models for Code with Ranking
  Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.14936)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.14936](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14936)

**Authors**: Bo Shen, Jiaxin Zhang, Taihong Chen, Daoguang Zan, Bing Geng, An Fu, Muhan Zeng, Ailun Yu, Jichuan Ji, Jingyang Zhao, Yuenan Guo, Qianxiang Wang

**Published**: 2023-07-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 42

### Abstract

Large Language Models for Code (Code LLM) are flourishing. New and powerful
models are released on a weekly basis, demonstrating remarkable performance on
the code generation task. Various approaches have been proposed to boost the
code generation performance of pre-trained Code LLMs, such as supervised
fine-tuning, instruction tuning, reinforcement learning, etc. In this paper, we
propose a novel RRTF (Rank Responses to align Test&Teacher Feedback) framework,
which can effectively and efficiently boost pre-trained large language models
for code generation. Under this framework, we present PanGu-Coder2, which
achieves 62.20% pass@1 on the OpenAI HumanEval benchmark. Furthermore, through
an extensive evaluation on CoderEval and LeetCode benchmarks, we show that
PanGu-Coder2 consistently outperforms all previous Code LLMs.

---

## 2. [Scaling TransNormer to 175 Billion Parameters](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.14995)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.14995](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14995)

**Authors**: Zhen Qin, Dong Li, Weigao Sun, Weixuan Sun, Xuyang Shen, Xiaodong Han, Yunshen Wei, Baohong Lv, Fei Yuan, Xiao Luo, Yu Qiao, Yiran Zhong

**Published**: 2023-07-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

We present TransNormerLLM, the first linear attention-based Large Language
Model (LLM) that outperforms conventional softmax attention-based models in
terms of both accuracy and efficiency. TransNormerLLM evolves from the previous
linear attention architecture TransNormer by making advanced modifications that
include positional embedding, linear attention acceleration, gating mechanism,
tensor normalization, inference acceleration and stabilization. Specifically,
we use LRPE together with an exponential decay to avoid attention dilution
issues while allowing the model to retain global interactions between tokens.
Additionally, we propose Lightning Attention, a cutting-edge technique that
accelerates linear attention by more than twice in runtime and reduces memory
usage by a remarkable four times. To further enhance the performance of
TransNormer, we leverage a gating mechanism to smooth training and a new tensor
normalization scheme to accelerate the model, resulting in an impressive
acceleration of over 20%. Furthermore, we have developed a robust inference
algorithm that ensures numerical stability and consistent inference speed,
regardless of the sequence length, showcasing superior efficiency during both
training and inference stages. Scalability is at the heart of our model's
design, enabling seamless deployment on large-scale clusters and facilitating
expansion to even more extensive models, all while maintaining outstanding
performance metrics. Rigorous validation of our model design is achieved
through a series of comprehensive experiments on our self-collected corpus,
boasting a size exceeding 6TB and containing over 2 trillion tokens. To ensure
data quality and relevance, we implement a new self-cleaning strategy to filter
our collected data. Our pre-trained models will be released to foster community
advancements in efficient LLMs.

---

## 3. [Scaling Up and Distilling Down: Language-Guided Robot Skill Acquisition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.14535)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.14535](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14535)

**Authors**: Huy Ha, Pete Florence, Shuran Song

**Published**: 2023-07-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/real-stanford/scalingup)

### Abstract

We present a framework for robot skill acquisition, which 1) efficiently
scale up data generation of language-labelled robot data and 2) effectively
distills this data down into a robust multi-task language-conditioned
visuo-motor policy. For (1), we use a large language model (LLM) to guide
high-level planning, and sampling-based robot planners (e.g. motion or grasp
samplers) for generating diverse and rich manipulation trajectories. To
robustify this data-collection process, the LLM also infers a code-snippet for
the success condition of each task, simultaneously enabling the data-collection
process to detect failure and retry as well as the automatic labeling of
trajectories with success/failure. For (2), we extend the diffusion policy
single-task behavior-cloning approach to multi-task settings with language
conditioning. Finally, we propose a new multi-task benchmark with 18 tasks
across five domains to test long-horizon behavior, common-sense reasoning,
tool-use, and intuitive physics. We find that our distilled policy successfully
learned the robust retrying behavior in its data collection policy, while
improving absolute success rates by 34.8% on average across five domains. The
benchmark, code, and qualitative results are on our website
https://www.cs.columbia.edu/~huy/scalingup/

---

## 4. [Tracking Anything in High Quality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.13974)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.13974](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.13974)

**Authors**: Jiawen Zhu, Zhenyu Chen, Zeqi Hao, Shijie Chang, Lu Zhang, Dong Wang, Huchuan Lu, Bin Luo, Jun-Yan He, Jin-Peng Lan, Hanyuan Chen, Chenyang Li

**Published**: 2023-07-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jiawen-zhu/hqtrack)

### Abstract

Visual object tracking is a fundamental video task in computer vision.
Recently, the notably increasing power of perception algorithms allows the
unification of single/multiobject and box/mask-based tracking. Among them, the
Segment Anything Model (SAM) attracts much attention. In this report, we
propose HQTrack, a framework for High Quality Tracking anything in videos.
HQTrack mainly consists of a video multi-object segmenter (VMOS) and a mask
refiner (MR). Given the object to be tracked in the initial frame of a video,
VMOS propagates the object masks to the current frame. The mask results at this
stage are not accurate enough since VMOS is trained on several closeset video
object segmentation (VOS) datasets, which has limited ability to generalize to
complex and corner scenes. To further improve the quality of tracking masks, a
pretrained MR model is employed to refine the tracking results. As a compelling
testament to the effectiveness of our paradigm, without employing any tricks
such as test-time data augmentations and model ensemble, HQTrack ranks the 2nd
place in the Visual Object Tracking and Segmentation (VOTS2023) challenge. Code
and models are available at https://github.com/jiawen-zhu/HQTrack.

---

## 5. [Towards Generalist Biomedical AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.14334)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.14334](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14334)

**Authors**: Tao Tu, Shekoofeh Azizi, Danny Driess, Mike Schaekermann, Mohamed Amin, Pi-Chuan Chang, Andrew Carroll, Chuck Lau, Ryutaro Tanno, Ira Ktena, Basil Mustafa, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Yun Liu, Simon Kornblith, David Fleet, Philip Mansfield, Sushant Prakash, Renee Wong, Sunny Virmani, Christopher Semturs, S Sara Mahdavi, Bradley Green, Ewa Dominowska, Blaise Aguera y Arcas, Joelle Barral, Dale Webster, Greg S. Corrado, Yossi Matias, Karan Singhal, Pete Florence, Alan Karthikesalingam, Vivek Natarajan

**Published**: 2023-07-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Medicine is inherently multimodal, with rich data modalities spanning text,
imaging, genomics, and more. Generalist biomedical artificial intelligence (AI)
systems that flexibly encode, integrate, and interpret this data at scale can
potentially enable impactful applications ranging from scientific discovery to
care delivery. To enable the development of these models, we first curate
MultiMedBench, a new multimodal biomedical benchmark. MultiMedBench encompasses
14 diverse tasks such as medical question answering, mammography and
dermatology image interpretation, radiology report generation and
summarization, and genomic variant calling. We then introduce Med-PaLM
Multimodal (Med-PaLM M), our proof of concept for a generalist biomedical AI
system. Med-PaLM M is a large multimodal generative model that flexibly encodes
and interprets biomedical data including clinical language, imaging, and
genomics with the same set of model weights. Med-PaLM M reaches performance
competitive with or exceeding the state of the art on all MultiMedBench tasks,
often surpassing specialist models by a wide margin. We also report examples of
zero-shot generalization to novel medical concepts and tasks, positive transfer
learning across tasks, and emergent zero-shot medical reasoning. To further
probe the capabilities and limitations of Med-PaLM M, we conduct a radiologist
evaluation of model-generated (and human) chest X-ray reports and observe
encouraging performance across model scales. In a side-by-side ranking on 246
retrospective chest X-rays, clinicians express a pairwise preference for
Med-PaLM M reports over those produced by radiologists in up to 40.50% of
cases, suggesting potential clinical utility. While considerable work is needed
to validate these models in real-world use cases, our results represent a
milestone towards the development of generalist biomedical AI systems.

---

## 6. [Points-to-3D: Bridging the Gap between Sparse Points and
  Shape-Controllable Text-to-3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.13908)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.13908](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.13908)

**Authors**: Chaohui Yu, Qiang Zhou, Jingliang Li, Zhe Zhang, Zhibin Wang, Fan Wang

**Published**: 2023-07-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Text-to-3D generation has recently garnered significant attention, fueled by
2D diffusion models trained on billions of image-text pairs. Existing methods
primarily rely on score distillation to leverage the 2D diffusion priors to
supervise the generation of 3D models, e.g., NeRF. However, score distillation
is prone to suffer the view inconsistency problem, and implicit NeRF modeling
can also lead to an arbitrary shape, thus leading to less realistic and
uncontrollable 3D generation. In this work, we propose a flexible framework of
Points-to-3D to bridge the gap between sparse yet freely available 3D points
and realistic shape-controllable 3D generation by distilling the knowledge from
both 2D and 3D diffusion models. The core idea of Points-to-3D is to introduce
controllable sparse 3D points to guide the text-to-3D generation. Specifically,
we use the sparse point cloud generated from the 3D diffusion model, Point-E,
as the geometric prior, conditioned on a single reference image. To better
utilize the sparse 3D points, we propose an efficient point cloud guidance loss
to adaptively drive the NeRF's geometry to align with the shape of the sparse
3D points. In addition to controlling the geometry, we propose to optimize the
NeRF for a more view-consistent appearance. To be specific, we perform score
distillation to the publicly available 2D image diffusion model ControlNet,
conditioned on text as well as depth map of the learned compact geometry.
Qualitative and quantitative comparisons demonstrate that Points-to-3D improves
view consistency and achieves good shape controllability for text-to-3D
generation. Points-to-3D provides users with a new way to improve and control
text-to-3D generation.

---

## 7. [Composite Diffusion | whole >= Σparts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.13720)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.13720](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.13720)

**Authors**: Vikram Jamwal, Ramaneswaran S

**Published**: 2023-07-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

For an artist or a graphic designer, the spatial layout of a scene is a
critical design choice. However, existing text-to-image diffusion models
provide limited support for incorporating spatial information. This paper
introduces Composite Diffusion as a means for artists to generate high-quality
images by composing from the sub-scenes. The artists can specify the
arrangement of these sub-scenes through a flexible free-form segment layout.
They can describe the content of each sub-scene primarily using natural text
and additionally by utilizing reference images or control inputs such as line
art, scribbles, human pose, canny edges, and more.
  We provide a comprehensive and modular method for Composite Diffusion that
enables alternative ways of generating, composing, and harmonizing sub-scenes.
Further, we wish to evaluate the composite image for effectiveness in both
image quality and achieving the artist's intent. We argue that existing image
quality metrics lack a holistic evaluation of image composites. To address
this, we propose novel quality criteria especially relevant to composite
generation.
  We believe that our approach provides an intuitive method of art creation.
Through extensive user surveys, quantitative and qualitative analysis, we show
how it achieves greater spatial, semantic, and creative control over image
generation. In addition, our methods do not need to retrain or modify the
architecture of the base diffusion models and can work in a plug-and-play
manner with the fine-tuned models.

---

## 8. [Leveraging Implicit Feedback from Deployment Data in Dialogue](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.14117)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.14117](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14117)

**Authors**: Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Stephen Roller, Kyunghyun Cho, He He, Jason Weston

**Published**: 2023-07-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

We study improving social conversational agents by learning from natural
dialogue between users and a deployed model, without extra annotations. To
implicitly measure the quality of a machine-generated utterance, we leverage
signals like user response length, sentiment and reaction of the future human
utterances in the collected dialogue episodes. Our experiments use the publicly
released deployment data from BlenderBot (Xu et al., 2023). Human evaluation
indicates improvements in our new models over baseline responses; however, we
find that some proxy signals can lead to more generations with undesirable
properties as well. For example, optimizing for conversation length can lead to
more controversial or unfriendly generations compared to the baseline, whereas
optimizing for positive sentiment or reaction can decrease these behaviors.

---

## 9. [Adaptive Frequency Filters As Efficient Global Token Mixers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.14008)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.14008](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14008)

**Authors**: Zhipeng Huang, Zhizheng Zhang, Cuiling Lan, Zheng-Jun Zha, Yan Lu, Baining Guo

**Published**: 2023-07-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NWPU-Li/AFFNet)

### Abstract

Recent vision transformers, large-kernel CNNs and MLPs have attained
remarkable successes in broad vision tasks thanks to their effective
information fusion in the global scope. However, their efficient deployments,
especially on mobile devices, still suffer from noteworthy challenges due to
the heavy computational costs of self-attention mechanisms, large kernels, or
fully connected layers. In this work, we apply conventional convolution theorem
to deep learning for addressing this and reveal that adaptive frequency filters
can serve as efficient global token mixers. With this insight, we propose
Adaptive Frequency Filtering (AFF) token mixer. This neural operator transfers
a latent representation to the frequency domain via a Fourier transform and
performs semantic-adaptive frequency filtering via an elementwise
multiplication, which mathematically equals to a token mixing operation in the
original latent space with a dynamic convolution kernel as large as the spatial
resolution of this latent representation. We take AFF token mixers as primary
neural operators to build a lightweight neural network, dubbed AFFNet.
Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed AFF token
mixer and show that AFFNet achieve superior accuracy and efficiency trade-offs
compared to other lightweight network designs on broad visual tasks, including
visual recognition and dense prediction tasks.

---

## 10. [trajdata: A Unified Interface to Multiple Human Trajectory Datasets](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.13924)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.13924](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.13924)

**Authors**: Boris Ivanovic, Guanyu Song, Igor Gilitschenski, Marco Pavone

**Published**: 2023-07-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nvlabs/trajdata)

### Abstract

The field of trajectory forecasting has grown significantly in recent years,
partially owing to the release of numerous large-scale, real-world human
trajectory datasets for autonomous vehicles (AVs) and pedestrian motion
tracking. While such datasets have been a boon for the community, they each use
custom and unique data formats and APIs, making it cumbersome for researchers
to train and evaluate methods across multiple datasets. To remedy this, we
present trajdata: a unified interface to multiple human trajectory datasets. At
its core, trajdata provides a simple, uniform, and efficient representation and
API for trajectory and map data. As a demonstration of its capabilities, in
this work we conduct a comprehensive empirical evaluation of existing
trajectory datasets, providing users with a rich understanding of the data
underpinning much of current pedestrian and AV motion forecasting research, and
proposing suggestions for future datasets from these insights. trajdata is
permissively licensed (Apache 2.0) and can be accessed online at
https://github.com/NVlabs/trajdata

---
