# Daily Papers - 2023-07-28

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-28)

Total papers: 5

---

## 1. [To Adapt or Not to Adapt? Real-Time Adaptation for Semantic Segmentation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.15063)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.15063](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15063)

**Authors**: Marc Botet Colomer, Pier Luigi Dovesi, Theodoros Panagiotakopoulos, Joao Frederico Carvalho, Linus Härenstam-Nielsen, Hossein Azizpour, Hedvig Kjellström, Daniel Cremers, Matteo Poggi

**Published**: 2023-07-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MarcBotet/hamlet)

### Abstract

The goal of Online Domain Adaptation for semantic segmentation is to handle
unforeseeable domain changes that occur during deployment, like sudden weather
events. However, the high computational costs associated with brute-force
adaptation make this paradigm unfeasible for real-world applications. In this
paper we propose HAMLET, a Hardware-Aware Modular Least Expensive Training
framework for real-time domain adaptation. Our approach includes a
hardware-aware back-propagation orchestration agent (HAMT) and a dedicated
domain-shift detector that enables active control over when and how the model
is adapted (LT). Thanks to these advancements, our approach is capable of
performing semantic segmentation while simultaneously adapting at more than
29FPS on a single consumer-grade GPU. Our framework's encouraging accuracy and
speed trade-off is demonstrated on OnDA and SHIFT benchmarks through
experimental results.

---

## 2. [NeRF-Det: Learning Geometry-Aware Volumetric Representation for
  Multi-View 3D Object Detection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.14620)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.14620](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14620)

**Authors**: Chenfeng Xu, Bichen Wu, Ji Hou, Sam Tsai, Ruilong Li, Jialiang Wang, Wei Zhan, Zijian He, Peter Vajda, Kurt Keutzer, Masayoshi Tomizuka

**Published**: 2023-07-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/nerf-det)

### Abstract

We present NeRF-Det, a novel method for indoor 3D detection with posed RGB
images as input. Unlike existing indoor 3D detection methods that struggle to
model scene geometry, our method makes novel use of NeRF in an end-to-end
manner to explicitly estimate 3D geometry, thereby improving 3D detection
performance. Specifically, to avoid the significant extra latency associated
with per-scene optimization of NeRF, we introduce sufficient geometry priors to
enhance the generalizability of NeRF-MLP. Furthermore, we subtly connect the
detection and NeRF branches through a shared MLP, enabling an efficient
adaptation of NeRF to detection and yielding geometry-aware volumetric
representations for 3D detection. Our method outperforms state-of-the-arts by
3.9 mAP and 3.1 mAP on the ScanNet and ARKITScenes benchmarks, respectively. We
provide extensive analysis to shed light on how NeRF-Det works. As a result of
our joint-training design, NeRF-Det is able to generalize well to unseen scenes
for object detection, view synthesis, and depth estimation tasks without
requiring per-scene optimization. Code is available at
https://github.com/facebookresearch/NeRF-Det.

---

## 3. [MiDaS v3.1 -- A Model Zoo for Robust Monocular Relative Depth Estimation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.14460)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.14460](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14460)

**Authors**: Reiner Birkl, Diana Wofk, Matthias Müller

**Published**: 2023-07-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/isl-org/MiDaS)

### Abstract

We release MiDaS v3.1 for monocular depth estimation, offering a variety of
new models based on different encoder backbones. This release is motivated by
the success of transformers in computer vision, with a large variety of
pretrained vision transformers now available. We explore how using the most
promising vision transformers as image encoders impacts depth estimation
quality and runtime of the MiDaS architecture. Our investigation also includes
recent convolutional approaches that achieve comparable quality to vision
transformers in image classification tasks. While the previous release MiDaS
v3.0 solely leverages the vanilla vision transformer ViT, MiDaS v3.1 offers
additional models based on BEiT, Swin, SwinV2, Next-ViT and LeViT. These models
offer different performance-runtime tradeoffs. The best model improves the
depth estimation quality by 28% while efficient models enable downstream tasks
requiring high frame rates. We also describe the general process for
integrating new backbones. A video summarizing the work can be found at
https://youtu.be/UjaeNNFf9sE and the code is available at
https://github.com/isl-org/MiDaS.

---

## 4. [How to Scale Your EMA](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.13813)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.13813](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.13813)

**Authors**: Dan Busbridge, Jason Ramapuram, Pierre Ablin, Tatiana Likhomanenko, Eeshan Gunesh Dhekane, Xavier Suau, Russ Webb

**Published**: 2023-07-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Preserving training dynamics across batch sizes is an important tool for
practical machine learning as it enables the trade-off between batch size and
wall-clock time. This trade-off is typically enabled by a scaling rule, for
example, in stochastic gradient descent, one should scale the learning rate
linearly with the batch size. Another important tool for practical machine
learning is the model Exponential Moving Average (EMA), which is a model copy
that does not receive gradient information, but instead follows its target
model with some momentum. This model EMA can improve the robustness and
generalization properties of supervised learning, stabilize pseudo-labeling,
and provide a learning signal for Self-Supervised Learning (SSL). Prior works
have treated the model EMA separately from optimization, leading to different
training dynamics across batch sizes and lower model performance. In this work,
we provide a scaling rule for optimization in the presence of model EMAs and
demonstrate its validity across a range of architectures, optimizers, and data
modalities. We also show the rule's validity where the model EMA contributes to
the optimization of the target model, enabling us to train EMA-based
pseudo-labeling and SSL methods at small and large batch sizes. For SSL, we
enable training of BYOL up to batch size 24,576 without sacrificing
performance, optimally a 6times wall-clock time reduction.

---

## 5. [TEDi: Temporally-Entangled Diffusion for Long-Term Motion Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.15042)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.15042](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15042)

**Authors**: Zihan Zhang, Richard Liu, Kfir Aberman, Rana Hanocka

**Published**: 2023-07-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/threedle/TEDi)

### Abstract

The gradual nature of a diffusion process that synthesizes samples in small
increments constitutes a key ingredient of Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic
Models (DDPM), which have presented unprecedented quality in image synthesis
and been recently explored in the motion domain. In this work, we propose to
adapt the gradual diffusion concept (operating along a diffusion time-axis)
into the temporal-axis of the motion sequence. Our key idea is to extend the
DDPM framework to support temporally varying denoising, thereby entangling the
two axes. Using our special formulation, we iteratively denoise a motion buffer
that contains a set of increasingly-noised poses, which auto-regressively
produces an arbitrarily long stream of frames. With a stationary diffusion
time-axis, in each diffusion step we increment only the temporal-axis of the
motion such that the framework produces a new, clean frame which is removed
from the beginning of the buffer, followed by a newly drawn noise vector that
is appended to it. This new mechanism paves the way towards a new framework for
long-term motion synthesis with applications to character animation and other
domains.

---
