# Daily Papers - 2023-07-18

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-18)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [Retentive Network: A Successor to Transformer for Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.08621)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.08621](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.08621)

**Authors**: Yutao Sun, Li Dong, Shaohan Huang, Shuming Ma, Yuqing Xia, Jilong Xue, Jianyong Wang, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2023-07-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 173

### Abstract

In this work, we propose Retentive Network (RetNet) as a foundation
architecture for large language models, simultaneously achieving training
parallelism, low-cost inference, and good performance. We theoretically derive
the connection between recurrence and attention. Then we propose the retention
mechanism for sequence modeling, which supports three computation paradigms,
i.e., parallel, recurrent, and chunkwise recurrent. Specifically, the parallel
representation allows for training parallelism. The recurrent representation
enables low-cost O(1) inference, which improves decoding throughput, latency,
and GPU memory without sacrificing performance. The chunkwise recurrent
representation facilitates efficient long-sequence modeling with linear
complexity, where each chunk is encoded parallelly while recurrently
summarizing the chunks. Experimental results on language modeling show that
RetNet achieves favorable scaling results, parallel training, low-cost
deployment, and efficient inference. The intriguing properties make RetNet a
strong successor to Transformer for large language models. Code will be
available at https://aka.ms/retnet.

---

## 2. [TableGPT: Towards Unifying Tables, Nature Language and Commands into One
  GPT](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.08674)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.08674](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.08674)

**Authors**: Liangyu Zha, Junlin Zhou, Liyao Li, Rui Wang, Qingyi Huang, Saisai Yang, Jing Yuan, Changbao Su, Xiang Li, Aofeng Su, Tao Zhang, Chen Zhou, Kaizhe Shou, Miao Wang, Wufang Zhu, Guoshan Lu, Chao Ye, Yali Ye, Wentao Ye, Yiming Zhang, Xinglong Deng, Jie Xu, Haobo Wang, Gang Chen, Junbo Zhao

**Published**: 2023-07-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 49

### Abstract

Tables are prevalent in real-world databases, requiring significant time and
effort for humans to analyze and manipulate. The advancements in large language
models (LLMs) have made it possible to interact with tables using natural
language input, bringing this capability closer to reality. In this paper, we
present TableGPT, a unified fine-tuned framework that enables LLMs to
understand and operate on tables using external functional commands. It
introduces the capability to seamlessly interact with tables, enabling a wide
range of functionalities such as question answering, data manipulation (e.g.,
insert, delete, query, and modify operations), data visualization, analysis
report generation, and automated prediction. TableGPT aims to provide
convenience and accessibility to users by empowering them to effortlessly
leverage tabular data. At the core of TableGPT lies the novel concept of global
tabular representations, which empowers LLMs to gain a comprehensive
understanding of the entire table beyond meta-information. By jointly training
LLMs on both table and text modalities, TableGPT achieves a deep understanding
of tabular data and the ability to perform complex operations on tables through
chain-of-command instructions. Importantly, TableGPT offers the advantage of
being a self-contained system rather than relying on external API interfaces.
Moreover, it supports efficient data process flow, query rejection (when
appropriate) and private deployment, enabling faster domain data fine-tuning
and ensuring data privacy, which enhances the framework's adaptability to
specific use cases.

---

## 3. [BuboGPT: Enabling Visual Grounding in Multi-Modal LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.08581)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.08581](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.08581)

**Authors**: Yang Zhao, Zhijie Lin, Daquan Zhou, Zilong Huang, Jiashi Feng, Bingyi Kang

**Published**: 2023-07-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/magic-research/bubogpt)

### Abstract

LLMs have demonstrated remarkable abilities at interacting with humans
through language, especially with the usage of instruction-following data.
Recent advancements in LLMs, such as MiniGPT-4, LLaVA, and X-LLM, further
enlarge their abilities by incorporating multi-modal inputs, including image,
video, and speech. Despite their effectiveness at generating precise and
detailed language understanding of the given modality signal, these LLMs give
up the ability to ground specific parts of inputs, thus only constructing a
coarse-grained mapping. However, explicit and informative correspondence
between text and other modalities will not only improve the user experience but
also help to expand the application scenario of multi-modal LLMs. Therefore, we
propose BuboGPT, a multi-modal LLM with visual grounding that can perform
cross-modal interaction between vision, audio and language, providing
fine-grained understanding of visual objects and other given modalities. As a
result, BuboGPT is able to point out the specific location of an object in the
image, when it is generating response or description for that object. Our
contributions are two-fold: 1) An off-the-shelf visual grounding module based
on SAM that extracts entities in a sentence and find corresponding masks in the
image. 2) A two-stage training scheme and instruction dataset to endow joint
text-image-audio understanding. Our experiments show that BuboGPT achieves
impressive multi-modality understanding and visual grounding abilities during
the interaction with human. It performs consistently well when provided by
arbitrary modality combinations (either aligned or unaligned). Our code, model
and dataset are available at https://bubo-gpt.github.io .

---

## 4. [AlpaGasus: Training A Better Alpaca with Fewer Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.08701)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.08701](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.08701)

**Authors**: Lichang Chen, Shiyang Li, Jun Yan, Hai Wang, Kalpa Gunaratna, Vikas Yadav, Zheng Tang, Vijay Srinivasan, Tianyi Zhou, Heng Huang, Hongxia Jin

**Published**: 2023-07-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gpt4life/alpagasus)

### Abstract

Large language models~(LLMs) obtain instruction-following capability through
instruction-finetuning (IFT) on supervised instruction/response data. However,
widely used IFT datasets (e.g., Alpaca's 52k data) surprisingly contain many
low-quality instances with incorrect or irrelevant responses, which are
misleading and detrimental to IFT. In this paper, we propose a simple and
effective data selection strategy that automatically identifies and removes
low-quality data using a strong LLM (e.g., ChatGPT). To this end, we introduce
AlpaGasus, which is finetuned on only 9k high-quality data filtered from the
52k Alpaca data. AlpaGasus significantly outperforms the original Alpaca as
evaluated by GPT-4 on multiple test sets and its 13B variant matches >90%
performance of its teacher LLM (i.e., Text-Davinci-003) on test tasks. It also
provides 5.7x faster training, reducing the training time for a 7B variant from
80 minutes (for Alpaca) to 14 minutes We apply IFT for the same
number of epochs as Alpaca(7B) but on fewer data, using 4timesNVIDIA A100
(80GB) GPUs and following the original Alpaca setting and hyperparameters..
Overall, AlpaGasus demonstrates a novel data-centric IFT paradigm that can be
generally applied to instruction-tuning data, leading to faster training and
better instruction-following models. Our project page is available at:
https://lichang-chen.github.io/AlpaGasus/.

---

## 5. [Diffusion Models Beat GANs on Image Classification](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.08702)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.08702](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.08702)

**Authors**: Soumik Mukhopadhyay, Matthew Gwilliam, Vatsal Agarwal, Namitha Padmanabhan, Archana Swaminathan, Srinidhi Hegde, Tianyi Zhou, Abhinav Shrivastava

**Published**: 2023-07-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

While many unsupervised learning models focus on one family of tasks, either
generative or discriminative, we explore the possibility of a unified
representation learner: a model which uses a single pre-training stage to
address both families of tasks simultaneously. We identify diffusion models as
a prime candidate. Diffusion models have risen to prominence as a
state-of-the-art method for image generation, denoising, inpainting,
super-resolution, manipulation, etc. Such models involve training a U-Net to
iteratively predict and remove noise, and the resulting model can synthesize
high fidelity, diverse, novel images. The U-Net architecture, as a
convolution-based architecture, generates a diverse set of feature
representations in the form of intermediate feature maps. We present our
findings that these embeddings are useful beyond the noise prediction task, as
they contain discriminative information and can also be leveraged for
classification. We explore optimal methods for extracting and using these
embeddings for classification tasks, demonstrating promising results on the
ImageNet classification task. We find that with careful feature selection and
pooling, diffusion models outperform comparable generative-discriminative
methods such as BigBiGAN for classification tasks. We investigate diffusion
models in the transfer learning regime, examining their performance on several
fine-grained visual classification datasets. We compare these embeddings to
those generated by competing architectures and pre-trainings for classification
tasks.

---

## 6. [CoTracker: It is Better to Track Together](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.07635)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.07635](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07635)

**Authors**: Nikita Karaev, Ignacio Rocco, Benjamin Graham, Natalia Neverova, Andrea Vedaldi, Christian Rupprecht

**Published**: 2023-07-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/co-tracker)

### Abstract

Methods for video motion prediction either estimate jointly the instantaneous
motion of all points in a given video frame using optical flow or independently
track the motion of individual points throughout the video. The latter is true
even for powerful deep-learning methods that can track points through
occlusions. Tracking points individually ignores the strong correlation that
can exist between the points, for instance, because they belong to the same
physical object, potentially harming performance. In this paper, we thus
propose CoTracker, an architecture that jointly tracks multiple points
throughout an entire video. This architecture combines several ideas from the
optical flow and tracking literature in a new, flexible and powerful design. It
is based on a transformer network that models the correlation of different
points in time via specialised attention layers. The transformer iteratively
updates an estimate of several trajectories. It can be applied in a
sliding-window manner to very long videos, for which we engineer an unrolled
training loop. It can track from one to several points jointly and supports
adding new points to track at any time. The result is a flexible and powerful
tracking algorithm that outperforms state-of-the-art methods in almost all
benchmarks.

---

## 7. [Planting a SEED of Vision in Large Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.08041)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.08041](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.08041)

**Authors**: Yuying Ge, Yixiao Ge, Ziyun Zeng, Xintao Wang, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2023-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ailab-cvc/seed)

### Abstract

We present SEED, an elaborate image tokenizer that empowers Large Language
Models (LLMs) with the emergent ability to SEE and Draw at the same time.
Research on image tokenizers has previously reached an impasse, as frameworks
employing quantized visual tokens have lost prominence due to subpar
performance and convergence in multimodal comprehension (compared to BLIP-2,
etc.) or generation (compared to Stable Diffusion, etc.). Despite the
limitations, we remain confident in its natural capacity to unify visual and
textual representations, facilitating scalable multimodal training with LLM's
original recipe. In this study, we identify two crucial principles for the
architecture and training of SEED that effectively ease subsequent alignment
with LLMs. (1) Image tokens should be independent of 2D physical patch
positions and instead be produced with a 1D causal dependency, exhibiting
intrinsic interdependence that aligns with the left-to-right autoregressive
prediction mechanism in LLMs. (2) Image tokens should capture high-level
semantics consistent with the degree of semantic abstraction in words, and be
optimized for both discriminativeness and reconstruction during the tokenizer
training phase. As a result, the off-the-shelf LLM is able to perform both
image-to-text and text-to-image generation by incorporating our SEED through
efficient LoRA tuning. Comprehensive multimodal pretraining and instruction
tuning, which may yield improved results, are reserved for future
investigation. This version of SEED was trained in 5.7 days using only 64 V100
GPUs and 5M publicly available image-text pairs. Our preliminary study
emphasizes the great potential of discrete visual tokens in versatile
multimodal LLMs and the importance of proper image tokenizers in broader
research.

---

## 8. [INVE: Interactive Neural Video Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.07663)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.07663](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07663)

**Authors**: Jiahui Huang, Leonid Sigal, Kwang Moo Yi, Oliver Wang, Joon-Young Lee

**Published**: 2023-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

We present Interactive Neural Video Editing (INVE), a real-time video editing
solution, which can assist the video editing process by consistently
propagating sparse frame edits to the entire video clip. Our method is inspired
by the recent work on Layered Neural Atlas (LNA). LNA, however, suffers from
two major drawbacks: (1) the method is too slow for interactive editing, and
(2) it offers insufficient support for some editing use cases, including direct
frame editing and rigid texture tracking. To address these challenges we
leverage and adopt highly efficient network architectures, powered by
hash-grids encoding, to substantially improve processing speed. In addition, we
learn bi-directional functions between image-atlas and introduce vectorized
editing, which collectively enables a much greater variety of edits in both the
atlas and the frames directly. Compared to LNA, our INVE reduces the learning
and inference time by a factor of 5, and supports various video editing
operations that LNA cannot. We showcase the superiority of INVE over LNA in
interactive video editing through a comprehensive quantitative and qualitative
analysis, highlighting its numerous advantages and improved performance. For
video results, please see https://gabriel-huang.github.io/inve/

---

## 9. [Does Visual Pretraining Help End-to-End Reasoning?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.08506)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.08506](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.08506)

**Authors**: Chen Sun, Calvin Luo, Xingyi Zhou, Anurag Arnab, Cordelia Schmid

**Published**: 2023-07-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

We aim to investigate whether end-to-end learning of visual reasoning can be
achieved with general-purpose neural networks, with the help of visual
pretraining. A positive result would refute the common belief that explicit
visual abstraction (e.g. object detection) is essential for compositional
generalization on visual reasoning, and confirm the feasibility of a neural
network "generalist" to solve visual recognition and reasoning tasks. We
propose a simple and general self-supervised framework which "compresses" each
video frame into a small set of tokens with a transformer network, and
reconstructs the remaining frames based on the compressed temporal context. To
minimize the reconstruction loss, the network must learn a compact
representation for each image, as well as capture temporal dynamics and object
permanence from temporal context. We perform evaluation on two visual reasoning
benchmarks, CATER and ACRE. We observe that pretraining is essential to achieve
compositional generalization for end-to-end visual reasoning. Our proposed
framework outperforms traditional supervised pretraining, including image
classification and explicit object detection, by large margins.

---

## 10. [Scale-Aware Modulation Meet Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.08579)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.08579](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.08579)

**Authors**: Weifeng Lin, Ziheng Wu, Jiayu Chen, Jun Huang, Lianwen Jin

**Published**: 2023-07-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/afeng-x/smt)

### Abstract

This paper presents a new vision Transformer, Scale-Aware Modulation
Transformer (SMT), that can handle various downstream tasks efficiently by
combining the convolutional network and vision Transformer. The proposed
Scale-Aware Modulation (SAM) in the SMT includes two primary novel designs.
Firstly, we introduce the Multi-Head Mixed Convolution (MHMC) module, which can
capture multi-scale features and expand the receptive field. Secondly, we
propose the Scale-Aware Aggregation (SAA) module, which is lightweight but
effective, enabling information fusion across different heads. By leveraging
these two modules, convolutional modulation is further enhanced. Furthermore,
in contrast to prior works that utilized modulations throughout all stages to
build an attention-free network, we propose an Evolutionary Hybrid Network
(EHN), which can effectively simulate the shift from capturing local to global
dependencies as the network becomes deeper, resulting in superior performance.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that SMT significantly outperforms existing
state-of-the-art models across a wide range of visual tasks. Specifically, SMT
with 11.5M / 2.4GFLOPs and 32M / 7.7GFLOPs can achieve 82.2% and 84.3% top-1
accuracy on ImageNet-1K, respectively. After pretrained on ImageNet-22K in
224^2 resolution, it attains 87.1% and 88.1% top-1 accuracy when finetuned with
resolution 224^2 and 384^2, respectively. For object detection with Mask R-CNN,
the SMT base trained with 1x and 3x schedule outperforms the Swin Transformer
counterpart by 4.2 and 1.3 mAP on COCO, respectively. For semantic segmentation
with UPerNet, the SMT base test at single- and multi-scale surpasses Swin by
2.0 and 1.1 mIoU respectively on the ADE20K.

---

## 11. [Language Conditioned Traffic Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.07947)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.07947](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07947)

**Authors**: Shuhan Tan, Boris Ivanovic, Xinshuo Weng, Marco Pavone, Philipp Kraehenbuehl

**Published**: 2023-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Ariostgx/lctgen)

### Abstract

Simulation forms the backbone of modern self-driving development. Simulators
help develop, test, and improve driving systems without putting humans,
vehicles, or their environment at risk. However, simulators face a major
challenge: They rely on realistic, scalable, yet interesting content. While
recent advances in rendering and scene reconstruction make great strides in
creating static scene assets, modeling their layout, dynamics, and behaviors
remains challenging. In this work, we turn to language as a source of
supervision for dynamic traffic scene generation. Our model, LCTGen, combines a
large language model with a transformer-based decoder architecture that selects
likely map locations from a dataset of maps, and produces an initial traffic
distribution, as well as the dynamics of each vehicle. LCTGen outperforms prior
work in both unconditional and conditional traffic scene generation in terms of
realism and fidelity. Code and video will be available at
https://ariostgx.github.io/lctgen.

---
