# Daily Papers - 2023-07-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-10)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [Becoming self-instruct: introducing early stopping criteria for minimal
  instruct tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.03692)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.03692](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03692)

**Authors**: Waseem AlShikh, Manhal Daaboul, Kirk Goddard, Brock Imel, Kiran Kamble, Parikshith Kulkarni, Melisa Russak

**Published**: 2023-07-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [Project Page](https://writer.com/research/)

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce the Instruction Following Score (IFS), a metric
that detects language models' ability to follow instructions. The metric has a
dual purpose. First, IFS can be used to distinguish between base and instruct
models. We benchmark publicly available base and instruct models, and show that
the ratio of well formatted responses to partial and full sentences can be an
effective measure between those two model classes. Secondly, the metric can be
used as an early stopping criteria for instruct tuning. We compute IFS for
Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) of 7B and 13B LLaMA models, showing that models
learn to follow instructions relatively early in the training process, and the
further finetuning can result in changes in the underlying base model
semantics. As an example of semantics change we show the objectivity of model
predictions, as defined by an auxiliary metric ObjecQA. We show that in this
particular case, semantic changes are the steepest when the IFS tends to
plateau. We hope that decomposing instruct tuning into IFS and semantic factors
starts a new trend in better controllable instruct tuning and opens
possibilities for designing minimal instruct interfaces querying foundation
models.

---

## 2. [Teaching Arithmetic to Small Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.03381)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.03381](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03381)

**Authors**: Nayoung Lee, Kartik Sreenivasan, Jason D. Lee, Kangwook Lee, Dimitris Papailiopoulos

**Published**: 2023-07-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lee-ny/teaching_arithmetic)

### Abstract

Large language models like GPT-4 exhibit emergent capabilities across
general-purpose tasks, such as basic arithmetic, when trained on extensive text
data, even though these tasks are not explicitly encoded by the unsupervised,
next-token prediction objective. This study investigates how small
transformers, trained from random initialization, can efficiently learn
arithmetic operations such as addition, multiplication, and elementary
functions like square root, using the next-token prediction objective. We first
demonstrate that conventional training data is not the most effective for
arithmetic learning, and simple formatting changes can significantly improve
accuracy. This leads to sharp phase transitions as a function of training data
scale, which, in some cases, can be explained through connections to low-rank
matrix completion. Building on prior work, we then train on chain-of-thought
style data that includes intermediate step results. Even in the complete
absence of pretraining, this approach significantly and simultaneously improves
accuracy, sample complexity, and convergence speed. We also study the interplay
between arithmetic and text data during training and examine the effects of
few-shot prompting, pretraining, and model scale. Additionally, we discuss
length generalization challenges. Our work highlights the importance of
high-quality, instructive data that considers the particular characteristics of
the next-word prediction objective for rapidly eliciting arithmetic
capabilities.

---

## 3. [Large Language Models for Supply Chain Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.03875)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.03875](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03875)

**Authors**: Beibin Li, Konstantina Mellou, Bo Zhang, Jeevan Pathuri, Ishai Menache

**Published**: 2023-07-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Supply chain operations traditionally involve a variety of complex decision
making problems. Over the last few decades, supply chains greatly benefited
from advances in computation, which allowed the transition from manual
processing to automation and cost-effective optimization. Nonetheless, business
operators still need to spend substantial efforts in explaining and
interpreting the optimization outcomes to stakeholders. Motivated by the recent
advances in Large Language Models (LLMs), we study how this disruptive
technology can help bridge the gap between supply chain automation and human
comprehension and trust thereof. We design  -- a framework that accepts
as input queries in plain text, and outputs insights about the underlying
optimization outcomes. Our framework does not forgo the state-of-the-art
combinatorial optimization technology, but rather leverages it to
quantitatively answer what-if scenarios (e.g., how would the cost change if we
used supplier B instead of supplier A for a given demand?). Importantly, our
design does not require sending proprietary data over to LLMs, which can be a
privacy concern in some circumstances. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our
framework on a real server placement scenario within Microsoft's cloud supply
chain. Along the way, we develop a general evaluation benchmark, which can be
used to evaluate the accuracy of the LLM output in other scenarios.

---

## 4. [GPT4RoI: Instruction Tuning Large Language Model on Region-of-Interest](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.03601)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.03601](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03601)

**Authors**: Shilong Zhang, Peize Sun, Shoufa Chen, Min Xiao, Wenqi Shao, Wenwei Zhang, Kai Chen, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2023-07-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jshilong/gpt4roi)

### Abstract

Instruction tuning large language model (LLM) on image-text pairs has
achieved unprecedented vision-language multimodal abilities. However, their
vision-language alignments are only built on image-level, the lack of
region-level alignment limits their advancements to fine-grained multimodal
understanding. In this paper, we propose instruction tuning on
region-of-interest. The key design is to reformulate the bounding box as the
format of spatial instruction. The interleaved sequences of visual features
extracted by the spatial instruction and the language embedding are input to
LLM, and trained on the transformed region-text data in instruction tuning
format. Our region-level vision-language model, termed as GPT4RoI, brings brand
new conversational and interactive experience beyond image-level understanding.
(1) Controllability: Users can interact with our model by both language and
spatial instructions to flexibly adjust the detail level of the question. (2)
Capacities: Our model supports not only single-region spatial instruction but
also multi-region. This unlocks more region-level multimodal capacities such as
detailed region caption and complex region reasoning. (3) Composition: Any
off-the-shelf object detector can be a spatial instruction provider so as to
mine informative object attributes from our model, like color, shape, material,
action, relation to other objects, etc. The code, data, and demo can be found
at https://github.com/jshilong/GPT4RoI.

---

## 5. [BiPhone: Modeling Inter Language Phonetic Influences in Text](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.03322)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.03322](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03322)

**Authors**: Abhirut Gupta, Ananya B. Sai, Richard Sproat, Yuri Vasilevski, James S. Ren, Ambarish Jash, Sukhdeep S. Sodhi, Aravindan Raghuveer

**Published**: 2023-07-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

A large number of people are forced to use the Web in a language they have
low literacy in due to technology asymmetries. Written text in the second
language (L2) from such users often contains a large number of errors that are
influenced by their native language (L1). We propose a method to mine phoneme
confusions (sounds in L2 that an L1 speaker is likely to conflate) for pairs of
L1 and L2. These confusions are then plugged into a generative model (Bi-Phone)
for synthetically producing corrupted L2 text. Through human evaluations, we
show that Bi-Phone generates plausible corruptions that differ across L1s and
also have widespread coverage on the Web. We also corrupt the popular language
understanding benchmark SuperGLUE with our technique (FunGLUE for Phonetically
Noised GLUE) and show that SoTA language understating models perform poorly. We
also introduce a new phoneme prediction pre-training task which helps byte
models to recover performance close to SuperGLUE. Finally, we also release the
FunGLUE benchmark to promote further research in phonetically robust language
models. To the best of our knowledge, FunGLUE is the first benchmark to
introduce L1-L2 interactions in text.

---

## 6. [SVIT: Scaling up Visual Instruction Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04087)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04087](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04087)

**Authors**: Bo Zhao, Boya Wu, Tiejun Huang

**Published**: 2023-07-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/baai-dcai/visual-instruction-tuning)

### Abstract

Thanks to the emerging of foundation models, the large language and vision
models are integrated to acquire the multimodal ability of visual captioning,
dialogue, question answering, etc. Although existing multimodal models present
impressive performance of visual understanding and reasoning, their limits are
still largely under-explored due to the scarcity of high-quality instruction
tuning data. To push the limits of multimodal capability, we Sale up Visual
Instruction Tuning (SVIT) by constructing a dataset of 3.2 million visual
instruction tuning data including 1.6M conversation question-answer (QA) pairs
and 1.6M complex reasoning QA pairs and 106K detailed image descriptions.
Besides the volume, the proposed dataset is also featured by the high quality
and rich diversity, which is generated by prompting GPT-4 with the abundant
manual annotations of images. We empirically verify that training multimodal
models on SVIT can significantly improve the multimodal performance in terms of
visual perception, reasoning and planing.

---

## 7. [Decomposing the Generalization Gap in Imitation Learning for Visual
  Robotic Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.03659)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.03659](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03659)

**Authors**: Annie Xie, Lisa Lee, Ted Xiao, Chelsea Finn

**Published**: 2023-07-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

What makes generalization hard for imitation learning in visual robotic
manipulation? This question is difficult to approach at face value, but the
environment from the perspective of a robot can often be decomposed into
enumerable factors of variation, such as the lighting conditions or the
placement of the camera. Empirically, generalization to some of these factors
have presented a greater obstacle than others, but existing work sheds little
light on precisely how much each factor contributes to the generalization gap.
Towards an answer to this question, we study imitation learning policies in
simulation and on a real robot language-conditioned manipulation task to
quantify the difficulty of generalization to different (sets of) factors. We
also design a new simulated benchmark of 19 tasks with 11 factors of variation
to facilitate more controlled evaluations of generalization. From our study, we
determine an ordering of factors based on generalization difficulty, that is
consistent across simulation and our real robot setup.

---

## 8. [One Step of Gradient Descent is Provably the Optimal In-Context Learner
  with One Layer of Linear Self-Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.03576)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.03576](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03576)

**Authors**: Arvind Mahankali, Tatsunori B. Hashimoto, Tengyu Ma

**Published**: 2023-07-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Recent works have empirically analyzed in-context learning and shown that
transformers trained on synthetic linear regression tasks can learn to
implement ridge regression, which is the Bayes-optimal predictor, given
sufficient capacity [Aky\"urek et al., 2023], while one-layer transformers with
linear self-attention and no MLP layer will learn to implement one step of
gradient descent (GD) on a least-squares linear regression objective [von
Oswald et al., 2022]. However, the theory behind these observations remains
poorly understood. We theoretically study transformers with a single layer of
linear self-attention, trained on synthetic noisy linear regression data.
First, we mathematically show that when the covariates are drawn from a
standard Gaussian distribution, the one-layer transformer which minimizes the
pre-training loss will implement a single step of GD on the least-squares
linear regression objective. Then, we find that changing the distribution of
the covariates and weight vector to a non-isotropic Gaussian distribution has a
strong impact on the learned algorithm: the global minimizer of the
pre-training loss now implements a single step of pre-conditioned
GD. However, if only the distribution of the responses is changed, then this
does not have a large effect on the learned algorithm: even when the response
comes from a more general family of nonlinear functions, the global
minimizer of the pre-training loss still implements a single step of GD on a
least-squares linear regression objective.

---

## 9. [Frontier AI Regulation: Managing Emerging Risks to Public Safety](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.03718)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.03718](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03718)

**Authors**: Markus Anderljung, Joslyn Barnhart, Jade Leung, Anton Korinek, Cullen O'Keefe, Jess Whittlestone, Shahar Avin, Miles Brundage, Justin Bullock, Duncan Cass-Beggs, Ben Chang, Tantum Collins, Tim Fist, Gillian Hadfield, Alan Hayes, Lewis Ho, Sara Hooker, Eric Horvitz, Noam Kolt, Jonas Schuett, Yonadav Shavit, Divya Siddarth, Robert Trager, Kevin Wolf

**Published**: 2023-07-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Advanced AI models hold the promise of tremendous benefits for humanity, but
society needs to proactively manage the accompanying risks. In this paper, we
focus on what we term "frontier AI" models: highly capable foundation models
that could possess dangerous capabilities sufficient to pose severe risks to
public safety. Frontier AI models pose a distinct regulatory challenge:
dangerous capabilities can arise unexpectedly; it is difficult to robustly
prevent a deployed model from being misused; and, it is difficult to stop a
model's capabilities from proliferating broadly. To address these challenges,
at least three building blocks for the regulation of frontier models are
needed: (1) standard-setting processes to identify appropriate requirements for
frontier AI developers, (2) registration and reporting requirements to provide
regulators with visibility into frontier AI development processes, and (3)
mechanisms to ensure compliance with safety standards for the development and
deployment of frontier AI models. Industry self-regulation is an important
first step. However, wider societal discussions and government intervention
will be needed to create standards and to ensure compliance with them. We
consider several options to this end, including granting enforcement powers to
supervisory authorities and licensure regimes for frontier AI models. Finally,
we propose an initial set of safety standards. These include conducting
pre-deployment risk assessments; external scrutiny of model behavior; using
risk assessments to inform deployment decisions; and monitoring and responding
to new information about model capabilities and uses post-deployment. We hope
this discussion contributes to the broader conversation on how to balance
public safety risks and innovation benefits from advances at the frontier of AI
development.

---
