# Daily Papers - 2023-07-12

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-12)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [Collaborative Score Distillation for Consistent Visual Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04787)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04787](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04787)

**Authors**: Subin Kim, Kyungmin Lee, June Suk Choi, Jongheon Jeong, Kihyuk Sohn, Jinwoo Shin

**Published**: 2023-07-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

### Abstract

Generative priors of large-scale text-to-image diffusion models enable a wide
range of new generation and editing applications on diverse visual modalities.
However, when adapting these priors to complex visual modalities, often
represented as multiple images (e.g., video), achieving consistency across a
set of images is challenging. In this paper, we address this challenge with a
novel method, Collaborative Score Distillation (CSD). CSD is based on the Stein
Variational Gradient Descent (SVGD). Specifically, we propose to consider
multiple samples as "particles" in the SVGD update and combine their score
functions to distill generative priors over a set of images synchronously.
Thus, CSD facilitates seamless integration of information across 2D images,
leading to a consistent visual synthesis across multiple samples. We show the
effectiveness of CSD in a variety of tasks, encompassing the visual editing of
panorama images, videos, and 3D scenes. Our results underline the competency of
CSD as a versatile method for enhancing inter-sample consistency, thereby
broadening the applicability of text-to-image diffusion models.

---

## 2. [Self-Supervised Learning with Lie Symmetries for Partial Differential
  Equations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.05432)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.05432](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05432)

**Authors**: Grégoire Mialon, Quentin Garrido, Hannah Lawrence, Danyal Rehman, Yann LeCun, Bobak T. Kiani

**Published**: 2023-07-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/sslforpdes)

### Abstract

Machine learning for differential equations paves the way for computationally
efficient alternatives to numerical solvers, with potentially broad impacts in
science and engineering. Though current algorithms typically require simulated
training data tailored to a given setting, one may instead wish to learn useful
information from heterogeneous sources, or from real dynamical systems
observations that are messy or incomplete. In this work, we learn
general-purpose representations of PDEs from heterogeneous data by implementing
joint embedding methods for self-supervised learning (SSL), a framework for
unsupervised representation learning that has had notable success in computer
vision. Our representation outperforms baseline approaches to invariant tasks,
such as regressing the coefficients of a PDE, while also improving the
time-stepping performance of neural solvers. We hope that our proposed
methodology will prove useful in the eventual development of general-purpose
foundation models for PDEs.

---

## 3. [AutoDecoding Latent 3D Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.05445)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.05445](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05445)

**Authors**: Evangelos Ntavelis, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Kyle Olszewski, Chaoyang Wang, Luc Van Gool, Sergey Tulyakov

**Published**: 2023-07-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/snap-research/3dvader)

### Abstract

We present a novel approach to the generation of static and articulated 3D
assets that has a 3D autodecoder at its core. The 3D autodecoder framework
embeds properties learned from the target dataset in the latent space, which
can then be decoded into a volumetric representation for rendering
view-consistent appearance and geometry. We then identify the appropriate
intermediate volumetric latent space, and introduce robust normalization and
de-normalization operations to learn a 3D diffusion from 2D images or monocular
videos of rigid or articulated objects. Our approach is flexible enough to use
either existing camera supervision or no camera information at all -- instead
efficiently learning it during training. Our evaluations demonstrate that our
generation results outperform state-of-the-art alternatives on various
benchmark datasets and metrics, including multi-view image datasets of
synthetic objects, real in-the-wild videos of moving people, and a large-scale,
real video dataset of static objects.

---

## 4. [Differentiable Blocks World: Qualitative 3D Decomposition by Rendering
  Primitives](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.05473)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.05473](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05473)

**Authors**: Tom Monnier, Jake Austin, Angjoo Kanazawa, Alexei A. Efros, Mathieu Aubry

**Published**: 2023-07-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Given a set of calibrated images of a scene, we present an approach that
produces a simple, compact, and actionable 3D world representation by means of
3D primitives. While many approaches focus on recovering high-fidelity 3D
scenes, we focus on parsing a scene into mid-level 3D representations made of a
small set of textured primitives. Such representations are interpretable, easy
to manipulate and suited for physics-based simulations. Moreover, unlike
existing primitive decomposition methods that rely on 3D input data, our
approach operates directly on images through differentiable rendering.
Specifically, we model primitives as textured superquadric meshes and optimize
their parameters from scratch with an image rendering loss. We highlight the
importance of modeling transparency for each primitive, which is critical for
optimization and also enables handling varying numbers of primitives. We show
that the resulting textured primitives faithfully reconstruct the input images
and accurately model the visible 3D points, while providing amodal shape
completions of unseen object regions. We compare our approach to the state of
the art on diverse scenes from DTU, and demonstrate its robustness on real-life
captures from BlendedMVS and Nerfstudio. We also showcase how our results can
be used to effortlessly edit a scene or perform physical simulations. Code and
video results are available at https://www.tmonnier.com/DBW .

---

## 5. [EgoVLPv2: Egocentric Video-Language Pre-training with Fusion in the
  Backbone](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.05463)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.05463](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05463)

**Authors**: Shraman Pramanick, Yale Song, Sayan Nag, Kevin Qinghong Lin, Hardik Shah, Mike Zheng Shou, Rama Chellappa, Pengchuan Zhang

**Published**: 2023-07-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/EgoVLPv2)

### Abstract

Video-language pre-training (VLP) has become increasingly important due to
its ability to generalize to various vision and language tasks. However,
existing egocentric VLP frameworks utilize separate video and language encoders
and learn task-specific cross-modal information only during fine-tuning,
limiting the development of a unified system. In this work, we introduce the
second generation of egocentric video-language pre-training (EgoVLPv2), a
significant improvement from the previous generation, by incorporating
cross-modal fusion directly into the video and language backbones. EgoVLPv2
learns strong video-text representation during pre-training and reuses the
cross-modal attention modules to support different downstream tasks in a
flexible and efficient manner, reducing fine-tuning costs. Moreover, our
proposed fusion in the backbone strategy is more lightweight and
compute-efficient than stacking additional fusion-specific layers. Extensive
experiments on a wide range of VL tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of
EgoVLPv2 by achieving consistent state-of-the-art performance over strong
baselines across all downstream. Our project page can be found at
https://shramanpramanick.github.io/EgoVLPv2/.

---

## 6. [Efficient 3D Articulated Human Generation with Layered Surface Volumes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.05462)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.05462](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05462)

**Authors**: Yinghao Xu, Wang Yifan, Alexander W. Bergman, Menglei Chai, Bolei Zhou, Gordon Wetzstein

**Published**: 2023-07-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Access to high-quality and diverse 3D articulated digital human assets is
crucial in various applications, ranging from virtual reality to social
platforms. Generative approaches, such as 3D generative adversarial networks
(GANs), are rapidly replacing laborious manual content creation tools. However,
existing 3D GAN frameworks typically rely on scene representations that
leverage either template meshes, which are fast but offer limited quality, or
volumes, which offer high capacity but are slow to render, thereby limiting the
3D fidelity in GAN settings. In this work, we introduce layered surface volumes
(LSVs) as a new 3D object representation for articulated digital humans. LSVs
represent a human body using multiple textured mesh layers around a
conventional template. These layers are rendered using alpha compositing with
fast differentiable rasterization, and they can be interpreted as a volumetric
representation that allocates its capacity to a manifold of finite thickness
around the template. Unlike conventional single-layer templates that struggle
with representing fine off-surface details like hair or accessories, our
surface volumes naturally capture such details. LSVs can be articulated, and
they exhibit exceptional efficiency in GAN settings, where a 2D generator
learns to synthesize the RGBA textures for the individual layers. Trained on
unstructured, single-view 2D image datasets, our LSV-GAN generates high-quality
and view-consistent 3D articulated digital humans without the need for
view-inconsistent 2D upsampling networks.

---

## 7. [Test-Time Training on Video Streams](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.05014)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.05014](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05014)

**Authors**: Renhao Wang, Yu Sun, Yossi Gandelsman, Xinlei Chen, Alexei A. Efros, Xiaolong Wang

**Published**: 2023-07-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Prior work has established test-time training (TTT) as a general framework to
further improve a trained model at test time. Before making a prediction on
each test instance, the model is trained on the same instance using a
self-supervised task, such as image reconstruction with masked autoencoders. We
extend TTT to the streaming setting, where multiple test instances - video
frames in our case - arrive in temporal order. Our extension is online TTT: The
current model is initialized from the previous model, then trained on the
current frame and a small window of frames immediately before. Online TTT
significantly outperforms the fixed-model baseline for four tasks, on three
real-world datasets. The relative improvement is 45% and 66% for instance and
panoptic segmentation. Surprisingly, online TTT also outperforms its offline
variant that accesses more information, training on all frames from the entire
test video regardless of temporal order. This differs from previous findings
using synthetic videos. We conceptualize locality as the advantage of online
over offline TTT. We analyze the role of locality with ablations and a theory
based on bias-variance trade-off.

---
