# Daily Papers - 2023-07-24

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-24)

Total papers: 4

---

## 1. [Subject-Diffusion:Open Domain Personalized Text-to-Image Generation
  without Test-time Fine-tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.11410)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.11410](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.11410)

**Authors**: Jian Ma, Junhao Liang, Chen Chen, Haonan Lu

**Published**: 2023-07-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OPPO-Mente-Lab/Subject-Diffusion)

### Abstract

Recent progress in personalized image generation using diffusion models has
been significant. However, development in the area of open-domain and
non-fine-tuning personalized image generation is proceeding rather slowly. In
this paper, we propose Subject-Diffusion, a novel open-domain personalized
image generation model that, in addition to not requiring test-time
fine-tuning, also only requires a single reference image to support
personalized generation of single- or multi-subject in any domain. Firstly, we
construct an automatic data labeling tool and use the LAION-Aesthetics dataset
to construct a large-scale dataset consisting of 76M images and their
corresponding subject detection bounding boxes, segmentation masks and text
descriptions. Secondly, we design a new unified framework that combines text
and image semantics by incorporating coarse location and fine-grained reference
image control to maximize subject fidelity and generalization. Furthermore, we
also adopt an attention control mechanism to support multi-subject generation.
Extensive qualitative and quantitative results demonstrate that our method
outperforms other SOTA frameworks in single, multiple, and human customized
image generation. Please refer to our
https://oppo-mente-lab.github.io/subject_diffusion/{project page}

---

## 2. [CopyRNeRF: Protecting the CopyRight of Neural Radiance Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.11526)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.11526](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.11526)

**Authors**: Ziyuan Luo, Qing Guo, Ka Chun Cheung, Simon See, Renjie Wan

**Published**: 2023-07-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/luo-ziyuan/CopyRNeRF-code)

### Abstract

Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have the potential to be a major representation
of media. Since training a NeRF has never been an easy task, the protection of
its model copyright should be a priority. In this paper, by analyzing the pros
and cons of possible copyright protection solutions, we propose to protect the
copyright of NeRF models by replacing the original color representation in NeRF
with a watermarked color representation. Then, a distortion-resistant rendering
scheme is designed to guarantee robust message extraction in 2D renderings of
NeRF. Our proposed method can directly protect the copyright of NeRF models
while maintaining high rendering quality and bit accuracy when compared among
optional solutions.

---

## 3. [FaceCLIPNeRF: Text-driven 3D Face Manipulation using Deformable Neural
  Radiance Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.11418)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.11418](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.11418)

**Authors**: Sungwon Hwang, Junha Hyung, Daejin Kim, Min-Jung Kim, Jaegul Choo

**Published**: 2023-07-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

As recent advances in Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have enabled
high-fidelity 3D face reconstruction and novel view synthesis, its manipulation
also became an essential task in 3D vision. However, existing manipulation
methods require extensive human labor, such as a user-provided semantic mask
and manual attribute search unsuitable for non-expert users. Instead, our
approach is designed to require a single text to manipulate a face
reconstructed with NeRF. To do so, we first train a scene manipulator, a latent
code-conditional deformable NeRF, over a dynamic scene to control a face
deformation using the latent code. However, representing a scene deformation
with a single latent code is unfavorable for compositing local deformations
observed in different instances. As so, our proposed Position-conditional
Anchor Compositor (PAC) learns to represent a manipulated scene with spatially
varying latent codes. Their renderings with the scene manipulator are then
optimized to yield high cosine similarity to a target text in CLIP embedding
space for text-driven manipulation. To the best of our knowledge, our approach
is the first to address the text-driven manipulation of a face reconstructed
with NeRF. Extensive results, comparisons, and ablation studies demonstrate the
effectiveness of our approach.

---

## 4. [Diffusion Sampling with Momentum for Mitigating Divergence Artifacts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.11118)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.11118](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.11118)

**Authors**: Suttisak Wizadwongsa, Worameth Chinchuthakun, Pramook Khungurn, Amit Raj, Supasorn Suwajanakorn

**Published**: 2023-07-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sWizad/momentum-diffusion)

### Abstract

Despite the remarkable success of diffusion models in image generation, slow
sampling remains a persistent issue. To accelerate the sampling process, prior
studies have reformulated diffusion sampling as an ODE/SDE and introduced
higher-order numerical methods. However, these methods often produce divergence
artifacts, especially with a low number of sampling steps, which limits the
achievable acceleration. In this paper, we investigate the potential causes of
these artifacts and suggest that the small stability regions of these methods
could be the principal cause. To address this issue, we propose two novel
techniques. The first technique involves the incorporation of Heavy Ball (HB)
momentum, a well-known technique for improving optimization, into existing
diffusion numerical methods to expand their stability regions. We also prove
that the resulting methods have first-order convergence. The second technique,
called Generalized Heavy Ball (GHVB), constructs a new high-order method that
offers a variable trade-off between accuracy and artifact suppression.
Experimental results show that our techniques are highly effective in reducing
artifacts and improving image quality, surpassing state-of-the-art diffusion
solvers on both pixel-based and latent-based diffusion models for low-step
sampling. Our research provides novel insights into the design of numerical
methods for future diffusion work.

---
