# Daily Papers - 2023-07-11

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-11)

Total papers: 16

---

## 1. [AnimateDiff: Animate Your Personalized Text-to-Image Diffusion Models
  without Specific Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04725)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04725](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04725)

**Authors**: Yuwei Guo, Ceyuan Yang, Anyi Rao, Yaohui Wang, Yu Qiao, Dahua Lin, Bo Dai

**Published**: 2023-07-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 65

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/talesofai/animatediff)

### Abstract

With the advance of text-to-image models (e.g., Stable Diffusion) and
corresponding personalization techniques such as DreamBooth and LoRA, everyone
can manifest their imagination into high-quality images at an affordable cost.
Subsequently, there is a great demand for image animation techniques to further
combine generated static images with motion dynamics. In this report, we
propose a practical framework to animate most of the existing personalized
text-to-image models once and for all, saving efforts in model-specific tuning.
At the core of the proposed framework is to insert a newly initialized motion
modeling module into the frozen text-to-image model and train it on video clips
to distill reasonable motion priors. Once trained, by simply injecting this
motion modeling module, all personalized versions derived from the same base
T2I readily become text-driven models that produce diverse and personalized
animated images. We conduct our evaluation on several public representative
personalized text-to-image models across anime pictures and realistic
photographs, and demonstrate that our proposed framework helps these models
generate temporally smooth animation clips while preserving the domain and
diversity of their outputs. Code and pre-trained weights will be publicly
available at https://animatediff.github.io/ .

---

## 2. [Secrets of RLHF in Large Language Models Part I: PPO](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04964)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04964](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04964)

**Authors**: Rui Zheng, Shihan Dou, Songyang Gao, Wei Shen, Binghai Wang, Yan Liu, Senjie Jin, Qin Liu, Limao Xiong, Lu Chen, Zhiheng Xi, Yuhao Zhou, Nuo Xu, Wenbin Lai, Minghao Zhu, Rongxiang Weng, Wensen Cheng, Cheng Chang, Zhangyue Yin, Yuan Hua, Haoran Huang, Tianxiang Sun, Hang Yan, Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, Xipeng Qiu, Xuanjing Huang

**Published**: 2023-07-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/openlmlab/moss-rlhf)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have formulated a blueprint for the advancement
of artificial general intelligence. Its primary objective is to function as a
human-centric (helpful, honest, and harmless) assistant. Alignment with humans
assumes paramount significance, and reinforcement learning with human feedback
(RLHF) emerges as the pivotal technological paradigm underpinning this pursuit.
Current technical routes usually include reward models to measure
human preferences, Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) to optimize
policy model outputs, and process supervision to improve step-by-step
reasoning capabilities. However, due to the challenges of reward design,
environment interaction, and agent training, coupled with huge trial and error
cost of large language models, there is a significant barrier for AI
researchers to motivate the development of technical alignment and safe landing
of LLMs. The stable training of RLHF has still been a puzzle. In the first
report, we dissect the framework of RLHF, re-evaluate the inner workings of
PPO, and explore how the parts comprising PPO algorithms impact policy agent
training. We identify policy constraints being the key factor for the effective
implementation of the PPO algorithm. Therefore, we explore the PPO-max, an
advanced version of PPO algorithm, to efficiently improve the training
stability of the policy model. Based on our main results, we perform a
comprehensive analysis of RLHF abilities compared with SFT models and ChatGPT.
The absence of open-source implementations has posed significant challenges to
the investigation of LLMs alignment. Therefore, we are eager to release
technical reports, reward models and PPO codes

---

## 3. [Sketch-A-Shape: Zero-Shot Sketch-to-3D Shape Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.03869)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.03869](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03869)

**Authors**: Aditya Sanghi, Pradeep Kumar Jayaraman, Arianna Rampini, Joseph Lambourne, Hooman Shayani, Evan Atherton, Saeid Asgari Taghanaki

**Published**: 2023-07-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

Significant progress has recently been made in creative applications of large
pre-trained models for downstream tasks in 3D vision, such as text-to-shape
generation. This motivates our investigation of how these pre-trained models
can be used effectively to generate 3D shapes from sketches, which has largely
remained an open challenge due to the limited sketch-shape paired datasets and
the varying level of abstraction in the sketches. We discover that conditioning
a 3D generative model on the features (obtained from a frozen large pre-trained
vision model) of synthetic renderings during training enables us to effectively
generate 3D shapes from sketches at inference time. This suggests that the
large pre-trained vision model features carry semantic signals that are
resilient to domain shifts, i.e., allowing us to use only RGB renderings, but
generalizing to sketches at inference time. We conduct a comprehensive set of
experiments investigating different design factors and demonstrate the
effectiveness of our straightforward approach for generation of multiple 3D
shapes per each input sketch regardless of their level of abstraction without
requiring any paired datasets during training.

---

## 4. [Generative Pretraining in Multimodality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.05222)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.05222](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05222)

**Authors**: Quan Sun, Qiying Yu, Yufeng Cui, Fan Zhang, Xiaosong Zhang, Yueze Wang, Hongcheng Gao, Jingjing Liu, Tiejun Huang, Xinlong Wang

**Published**: 2023-07-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

We present Emu, a Transformer-based multimodal foundation model, which can
seamlessly generate images and texts in multimodal context. This omnivore model
can take in any single-modality or multimodal data input indiscriminately
(e.g., interleaved image, text and video) through a one-model-for-all
autoregressive training process. First, visual signals are encoded into
embeddings, and together with text tokens form an interleaved input sequence.
Emu is then end-to-end trained with a unified objective of classifying the next
text token or regressing the next visual embedding in the multimodal sequence.
This versatile multimodality empowers the exploration of diverse pretraining
data sources at scale, such as videos with interleaved frames and text,
webpages with interleaved images and text, as well as web-scale image-text
pairs and video-text pairs. Emu can serve as a generalist multimodal interface
for both image-to-text and text-to-image tasks, and supports in-context image
and text generation. Across a broad range of zero-shot/few-shot tasks including
image captioning, visual question answering, video question answering and
text-to-image generation, Emu demonstrates superb performance compared to
state-of-the-art large multimodal models. Extended capabilities such as
multimodal assistants via instruction tuning are also demonstrated with
impressive performance.

---

## 5. [Semantic-SAM: Segment and Recognize Anything at Any Granularity](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04767)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04767](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04767)

**Authors**: Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Peize Sun, Xueyan Zou, Shilong Liu, Jianwei Yang, Chunyuan Li, Lei Zhang

**Published**: 2023-07-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ux-decoder/semantic-sam)

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce Semantic-SAM, a universal image segmentation
model to enable segment and recognize anything at any desired granularity. Our
model offers two key advantages: semantic-awareness and granularity-abundance.
To achieve semantic-awareness, we consolidate multiple datasets across three
granularities and introduce decoupled classification for objects and parts.
This allows our model to capture rich semantic information. For the
multi-granularity capability, we propose a multi-choice learning scheme during
training, enabling each click to generate masks at multiple levels that
correspond to multiple ground-truth masks. Notably, this work represents the
first attempt to jointly train a model on SA-1B, generic, and part segmentation
datasets. Experimental results and visualizations demonstrate that our model
successfully achieves semantic-awareness and granularity-abundance.
Furthermore, combining SA-1B training with other segmentation tasks, such as
panoptic and part segmentation, leads to performance improvements. We will
provide code and a demo for further exploration and evaluation.

---

## 6. [VampNet: Music Generation via Masked Acoustic Token Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04686)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04686](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04686)

**Authors**: Hugo Flores Garcia, Prem Seetharaman, Rithesh Kumar, Bryan Pardo

**Published**: 2023-07-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hugofloresgarcia/vampnet)

### Abstract

We introduce VampNet, a masked acoustic token modeling approach to music
synthesis, compression, inpainting, and variation. We use a variable masking
schedule during training which allows us to sample coherent music from the
model by applying a variety of masking approaches (called prompts) during
inference. VampNet is non-autoregressive, leveraging a bidirectional
transformer architecture that attends to all tokens in a forward pass. With
just 36 sampling passes, VampNet can generate coherent high-fidelity musical
waveforms. We show that by prompting VampNet in various ways, we can apply it
to tasks like music compression, inpainting, outpainting, continuation, and
looping with variation (vamping). Appropriately prompted, VampNet is capable of
maintaining style, genre, instrumentation, and other high-level aspects of the
music. This flexible prompting capability makes VampNet a powerful music
co-creation tool. Code and audio samples are available online.

---

## 7. [Unleashing Cognitive Synergy in Large Language Models: A Task-Solving
  Agent through Multi-Persona Self-Collaboration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.05300)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.05300](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05300)

**Authors**: Zhenhailong Wang, Shaoguang Mao, Wenshan Wu, Tao Ge, Furu Wei, Heng Ji

**Published**: 2023-07-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mikewangwzhl/solo-performance-prompting)

### Abstract

Human intelligence thrives on the concept of cognitive synergy, where
collaboration and information integration among different cognitive processes
yield superior outcomes compared to individual cognitive processes in
isolation. Although Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated promising
performance as general task-solving agents, they still struggle with tasks that
require intensive domain knowledge and complex reasoning. In this work, we
propose Solo Performance Prompting (SPP), which transforms a single LLM into a
cognitive synergist by engaging in multi-turn self-collaboration with multiple
personas. A cognitive synergist refers to an intelligent agent that
collaborates with multiple minds, combining their individual strengths and
knowledge, to enhance problem-solving and overall performance in complex tasks.
By dynamically identifying and simulating different personas based on task
inputs, SPP unleashes the potential of cognitive synergy in LLMs. We have
discovered that assigning multiple, fine-grained personas in LLMs elicits
better problem-solving abilities compared to using a single or fixed number of
personas. We evaluate SPP on three challenging tasks: Trivia Creative Writing,
Codenames Collaborative, and Logic Grid Puzzle, encompassing both
knowledge-intensive and reasoning-intensive types. Unlike previous works, such
as Chain-of-Thought, that solely enhance the reasoning abilities in LLMs, SPP
effectively elicits internal knowledge acquisition abilities, reduces
hallucination, and maintains strong reasoning capabilities. Code, data, and
prompts can be found at:
https://github.com/MikeWangWZHL/Solo-Performance-Prompting.git.

---

## 8. [Large Language Models as General Pattern Machines](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04721)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04721](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04721)

**Authors**: Suvir Mirchandani, Fei Xia, Pete Florence, Brian Ichter, Danny Driess, Montserrat Gonzalez Arenas, Kanishka Rao, Dorsa Sadigh, Andy Zeng

**Published**: 2023-07-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

We observe that pre-trained large language models (LLMs) are capable of
autoregressively completing complex token sequences -- from arbitrary ones
procedurally generated by probabilistic context-free grammars (PCFG), to more
rich spatial patterns found in the Abstract Reasoning Corpus (ARC), a general
AI benchmark, prompted in the style of ASCII art. Surprisingly, pattern
completion proficiency can be partially retained even when the sequences are
expressed using tokens randomly sampled from the vocabulary. These results
suggest that without any additional training, LLMs can serve as general
sequence modelers, driven by in-context learning. In this work, we investigate
how these zero-shot capabilities may be applied to problems in robotics -- from
extrapolating sequences of numbers that represent states over time to complete
simple motions, to least-to-most prompting of reward-conditioned trajectories
that can discover and represent closed-loop policies (e.g., a stabilizing
controller for CartPole). While difficult to deploy today for real systems due
to latency, context size limitations, and compute costs, the approach of using
LLMs to drive low-level control may provide an exciting glimpse into how the
patterns among words could be transferred to actions.

---

## 9. [Empowering Cross-lingual Behavioral Testing of NLP Models with
  Typological Features](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.05454)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.05454](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05454)

**Authors**: Ester Hlavnova, Sebastian Ruder

**Published**: 2023-07-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-research/multi-morph-checklist)

### Abstract

A challenge towards developing NLP systems for the world's languages is
understanding how they generalize to typological differences relevant for
real-world applications. To this end, we propose M2C, a morphologically-aware
framework for behavioral testing of NLP models. We use M2C to generate tests
that probe models' behavior in light of specific linguistic features in 12
typologically diverse languages. We evaluate state-of-the-art language models
on the generated tests. While models excel at most tests in English, we
highlight generalization failures to specific typological characteristics such
as temporal expressions in Swahili and compounding possessives in Finish. Our
findings motivate the development of models that address these blind spots.

---

## 10. [On decoder-only architecture for speech-to-text and large language model
  integration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.03917)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.03917](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03917)

**Authors**: Jian Wu, Yashesh Gaur, Zhuo Chen, Long Zhou, Yimeng Zhu, Tianrui Wang, Jinyu Li, Shujie Liu, Bo Ren, Linquan Liu, Yu Wu

**Published**: 2023-07-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success in the field of
natural language processing, enabling better human-computer interaction using
natural language. However, the seamless integration of speech signals into LLMs
has not been explored well. The "decoder-only" architecture has also not been
well studied for speech processing tasks. In this research, we introduce
Speech-LLaMA, a novel approach that effectively incorporates acoustic
information into text-based large language models. Our method leverages
Connectionist Temporal Classification and a simple audio encoder to map the
compressed acoustic features to the continuous semantic space of the LLM. In
addition, we further probe the decoder-only architecture for speech-to-text
tasks by training a smaller scale randomly initialized speech-LLaMA model from
speech-text paired data alone. We conduct experiments on multilingual
speech-to-text translation tasks and demonstrate a significant improvement over
strong baselines, highlighting the potential advantages of decoder-only models
for speech-to-text conversion.

---

## 11. [International Institutions for Advanced AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04699)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04699](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04699)

**Authors**: Lewis Ho, Joslyn Barnhart, Robert Trager, Yoshua Bengio, Miles Brundage, Allison Carnegie, Rumman Chowdhury, Allan Dafoe, Gillian Hadfield, Margaret Levi, Duncan Snidal

**Published**: 2023-07-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

International institutions may have an important role to play in ensuring
advanced AI systems benefit humanity. International collaborations can unlock
AI's ability to further sustainable development, and coordination of regulatory
efforts can reduce obstacles to innovation and the spread of benefits.
Conversely, the potential dangerous capabilities of powerful and
general-purpose AI systems create global externalities in their development and
deployment, and international efforts to further responsible AI practices could
help manage the risks they pose. This paper identifies a set of governance
functions that could be performed at an international level to address these
challenges, ranging from supporting access to frontier AI systems to setting
international safety standards. It groups these functions into four
institutional models that exhibit internal synergies and have precedents in
existing organizations: 1) a Commission on Frontier AI that facilitates expert
consensus on opportunities and risks from advanced AI, 2) an Advanced AI
Governance Organization that sets international standards to manage global
threats from advanced models, supports their implementation, and possibly
monitors compliance with a future governance regime, 3) a Frontier AI
Collaborative that promotes access to cutting-edge AI, and 4) an AI Safety
Project that brings together leading researchers and engineers to further AI
safety research. We explore the utility of these models and identify open
questions about their viability.

---

## 12. [RLTF: Reinforcement Learning from Unit Test Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04349)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04349](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04349)

**Authors**: Jiate Liu, Yiqin Zhu, Kaiwen Xiao, Qiang Fu, Xiao Han, Wei Yang, Deheng Ye

**Published**: 2023-07-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zyq-scut/rltf)

### Abstract

The goal of program synthesis, or code generation, is to generate executable
code based on given descriptions. Recently, there has been an increasing number
of studies employing reinforcement learning (RL) to improve the performance of
large language models (LLMs) for code. However, these RL methods have only used
offline frameworks, limiting their exploration of new sample spaces.
Additionally, current approaches that utilize unit test signals are rather
simple, not accounting for specific error locations within the code. To address
these issues, we proposed RLTF, i.e., Reinforcement Learning from Unit Test
Feedback, a novel online RL framework with unit test feedback of
multi-granularity for refining code LLMs. Our approach generates data in
real-time during training and simultaneously utilizes fine-grained feedback
signals to guide the model towards producing higher-quality code. Extensive
experiments show that RLTF achieves state-of-the-art performance on the APPS
and the MBPP benchmarks. Our code can be found at:
https://github.com/Zyq-scut/RLTF.

---

## 13. [Solvent: A Framework for Protein Folding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04603)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04603](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04603)

**Authors**: Jaemyung Lee, Jaehoon Kim, Hasun Yu, Youhan Lee

**Published**: 2023-07-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kakaobrain/solvent)

### Abstract

Consistency and reliability are crucial for conducting AI research. Many
famous research fields, such as object detection, have been compared and
validated with solid benchmark frameworks. After AlphaFold2, the protein
folding task has entered a new phase, and many methods are proposed based on
the component of AlphaFold2. The importance of a unified research framework in
protein folding contains implementations and benchmarks to consistently and
fairly compare various approaches. To achieve this, we present Solvent, an
protein folding framework that supports significant components of
state-of-th-arts models in the manner of off-the-shelf interface Solvent
contains different models implemented in a unified codebase and supports
training and evaluation for defined models on the same dataset. We benchmark
well-known algorithms and their components and provide experiments that give
helpful insights into the protein structure modeling field. We hope that
Solvent will increase the reliability and consistency of proposed models and
gives efficiency in both speed and costs, resulting in acceleration on protein
folding modeling research. The code is available at
https://github.com/kakaobrain/solvent, and the project will continue to be
developed.

---

## 14. [Shelving, Stacking, Hanging: Relational Pose Diffusion for Multi-modal
  Rearrangement](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04751)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04751](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04751)

**Authors**: Anthony Simeonov, Ankit Goyal, Lucas Manuelli, Lin Yen-Chen, Alina Sarmiento, Alberto Rodriguez, Pulkit Agrawal, Dieter Fox

**Published**: 2023-07-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

We propose a system for rearranging objects in a scene to achieve a desired
object-scene placing relationship, such as a book inserted in an open slot of a
bookshelf. The pipeline generalizes to novel geometries, poses, and layouts of
both scenes and objects, and is trained from demonstrations to operate directly
on 3D point clouds. Our system overcomes challenges associated with the
existence of many geometrically-similar rearrangement solutions for a given
scene. By leveraging an iterative pose de-noising training procedure, we can
fit multi-modal demonstration data and produce multi-modal outputs while
remaining precise and accurate. We also show the advantages of conditioning on
relevant local geometric features while ignoring irrelevant global structure
that harms both generalization and precision. We demonstrate our approach on
three distinct rearrangement tasks that require handling multi-modality and
generalization over object shape and pose in both simulation and the real
world. Project website, code, and videos:
https://anthonysimeonov.github.io/rpdiff-multi-modal/

---

## 15. [Toward Interactive Dictation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04008)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04008](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04008)

**Authors**: Belinda Z. Li, Jason Eisner, Adam Pauls, Sam Thomson

**Published**: 2023-07-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Voice dictation is an increasingly important text input modality. Existing
systems that allow both dictation and editing-by-voice restrict their command
language to flat templates invoked by trigger words. In this work, we study the
feasibility of allowing users to interrupt their dictation with spoken editing
commands in open-ended natural language. We introduce a new task and dataset,
TERTiUS, to experiment with such systems. To support this flexibility in
real-time, a system must incrementally segment and classify spans of speech as
either dictation or command, and interpret the spans that are commands. We
experiment with using large pre-trained language models to predict the edited
text, or alternatively, to predict a small text-editing program. Experiments
show a natural trade-off between model accuracy and latency: a smaller model
achieves 30% end-state accuracy with 1.3 seconds of latency, while a larger
model achieves 55% end-state accuracy with 7 seconds of latency.

---

## 16. [AnyTeleop: A General Vision-Based Dexterous Robot Arm-Hand Teleoperation
  System](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.04577)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.04577](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04577)

**Authors**: Yuzhe Qin, Wei Yang, Binghao Huang, Karl Van Wyk, Hao Su, Xiaolong Wang, Yu-Wei Chao, Dietor Fox

**Published**: 2023-07-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Vision-based teleoperation offers the possibility to endow robots with
human-level intelligence to physically interact with the environment, while
only requiring low-cost camera sensors. However, current vision-based
teleoperation systems are designed and engineered towards a particular robot
model and deploy environment, which scales poorly as the pool of the robot
models expands and the variety of the operating environment increases. In this
paper, we propose AnyTeleop, a unified and general teleoperation system to
support multiple different arms, hands, realities, and camera configurations
within a single system. Although being designed to provide great flexibility to
the choice of simulators and real hardware, our system can still achieve great
performance. For real-world experiments, AnyTeleop can outperform a previous
system that was designed for a specific robot hardware with a higher success
rate, using the same robot. For teleoperation in simulation, AnyTeleop leads to
better imitation learning performance, compared with a previous system that is
particularly designed for that simulator. Project page: http://anyteleop.com/.

---
