# Daily Papers - 2023-07-17

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-17)

Total papers: 4

---

## 1. [Mega-TTS 2: Zero-Shot Text-to-Speech with Arbitrary Length Speech
  Prompts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.07218)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.07218](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07218)

**Authors**: Ziyue Jiang, Jinglin Liu, Yi Ren, Jinzheng He, Chen Zhang, Zhenhui Ye, Pengfei Wei, Chunfeng Wang, Xiang Yin, Zejun Ma, Zhou Zhao

**Published**: 2023-07-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

### Abstract

Zero-shot text-to-speech aims at synthesizing voices with unseen speech
prompts. Previous large-scale multispeaker TTS models have successfully
achieved this goal with an enrolled recording within 10 seconds. However, most
of them are designed to utilize only short speech prompts. The limited
information in short speech prompts significantly hinders the performance of
fine-grained identity imitation. In this paper, we introduce Mega-TTS 2, a
generic zero-shot multispeaker TTS model that is capable of synthesizing speech
for unseen speakers with arbitrary-length prompts. Specifically, we 1) design a
multi-reference timbre encoder to extract timbre information from multiple
reference speeches; 2) and train a prosody language model with arbitrary-length
speech prompts; With these designs, our model is suitable for prompts of
different lengths, which extends the upper bound of speech quality for
zero-shot text-to-speech. Besides arbitrary-length prompts, we introduce
arbitrary-source prompts, which leverages the probabilities derived from
multiple P-LLM outputs to produce expressive and controlled prosody.
Furthermore, we propose a phoneme-level auto-regressive duration model to
introduce in-context learning capabilities to duration modeling. Experiments
demonstrate that our method could not only synthesize identity-preserving
speech with a short prompt of an unseen speaker but also achieve improved
performance with longer speech prompts. Audio samples can be found in
https://mega-tts.github.io/mega2_demo/.

---

## 2. [Learning to Retrieve In-Context Examples for Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.07164)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.07164](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07164)

**Authors**: Nan Yang, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2023-07-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated their ability to learn
in-context, allowing them to perform various tasks based on a few input-output
examples. However, the effectiveness of in-context learning is heavily reliant
on the quality of the selected examples. In this paper, we propose a novel
framework to iteratively train dense retrievers that can identify high-quality
in-context examples for LLMs. Our framework initially trains a reward model
based on LLM feedback to evaluate the quality of candidate examples, followed
by knowledge distillation to train a bi-encoder based dense retriever. Our
experiments on a suite of 30 tasks demonstrate that our framework significantly
enhances in-context learning performance. Furthermore, we show the
generalization ability of our framework to unseen tasks during training. An
in-depth analysis reveals that our model improves performance by retrieving
examples with similar patterns, and the gains are consistent across LLMs of
varying sizes.

---

## 3. [DreamTeacher: Pretraining Image Backbones with Deep Generative Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.07487)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.07487](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07487)

**Authors**: Daiqing Li, Huan Ling, Amlan Kar, David Acuna, Seung Wook Kim, Karsten Kreis, Antonio Torralba, Sanja Fidler

**Published**: 2023-07-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

In this work, we introduce a self-supervised feature representation learning
framework DreamTeacher that utilizes generative networks for pre-training
downstream image backbones. We propose to distill knowledge from a trained
generative model into standard image backbones that have been well engineered
for specific perception tasks. We investigate two types of knowledge
distillation: 1) distilling learned generative features onto target image
backbones as an alternative to pretraining these backbones on large labeled
datasets such as ImageNet, and 2) distilling labels obtained from generative
networks with task heads onto logits of target backbones. We perform extensive
analyses on multiple generative models, dense prediction benchmarks, and
several pre-training regimes. We empirically find that our DreamTeacher
significantly outperforms existing self-supervised representation learning
approaches across the board. Unsupervised ImageNet pre-training with
DreamTeacher leads to significant improvements over ImageNet classification
pre-training on downstream datasets, showcasing generative models, and
diffusion generative models specifically, as a promising approach to
representation learning on large, diverse datasets without requiring manual
annotation.

---

## 4. [NIFTY: Neural Object Interaction Fields for Guided Human Motion
  Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.07511)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.07511](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07511)

**Authors**: Nilesh Kulkarni, Davis Rempe, Kyle Genova, Abhijit Kundu, Justin Johnson, David Fouhey, Leonidas Guibas

**Published**: 2023-07-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

We address the problem of generating realistic 3D motions of humans
interacting with objects in a scene. Our key idea is to create a neural
interaction field attached to a specific object, which outputs the distance to
the valid interaction manifold given a human pose as input. This interaction
field guides the sampling of an object-conditioned human motion diffusion
model, so as to encourage plausible contacts and affordance semantics. To
support interactions with scarcely available data, we propose an automated
synthetic data pipeline. For this, we seed a pre-trained motion model, which
has priors for the basics of human movement, with interaction-specific anchor
poses extracted from limited motion capture data. Using our guided diffusion
model trained on generated synthetic data, we synthesize realistic motions for
sitting and lifting with several objects, outperforming alternative approaches
in terms of motion quality and successful action completion. We call our
framework NIFTY: Neural Interaction Fields for Trajectory sYnthesis.

---
