# Daily Papers - 2023-07-19

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-07-19)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [Llama 2: Open Foundation and Fine-Tuned Chat Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.09288)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.09288](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09288)

**Authors**: Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, Dan Bikel, Lukas Blecher, Cristian Canton Ferrer, Moya Chen, Guillem Cucurull, David Esiobu, Jude Fernandes, Jeremy Fu, Wenyin Fu, Brian Fuller, Cynthia Gao, Vedanuj Goswami, Naman Goyal, Anthony Hartshorn, Saghar Hosseini, Rui Hou, Hakan Inan, Marcin Kardas, Viktor Kerkez, Madian Khabsa, Isabel Kloumann, Artem Korenev, Punit Singh Koura, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Thibaut Lavril, Jenya Lee, Diana Liskovich, Yinghai Lu, Yuning Mao, Xavier Martinet, Todor Mihaylov, Pushkar Mishra, Igor Molybog, Yixin Nie, Andrew Poulton, Jeremy Reizenstein, Rashi Rungta, Kalyan Saladi, Alan Schelten, Ruan Silva, Eric Michael Smith, Ranjan Subramanian, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Binh Tang, Ross Taylor, Adina Williams, Jian Xiang Kuan, Puxin Xu, Zheng Yan, Iliyan Zarov, Yuchen Zhang, Angela Fan, Melanie Kambadur, Sharan Narang, Aurelien Rodriguez, Robert Stojnic, Sergey Edunov, Thomas Scialom

**Published**: 2023-07-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 250

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/llama)

### Abstract

In this work, we develop and release Llama 2, a collection of pretrained and
fine-tuned large language models (LLMs) ranging in scale from 7 billion to 70
billion parameters. Our fine-tuned LLMs, called Llama 2-Chat, are optimized for
dialogue use cases. Our models outperform open-source chat models on most
benchmarks we tested, and based on our human evaluations for helpfulness and
safety, may be a suitable substitute for closed-source models. We provide a
detailed description of our approach to fine-tuning and safety improvements of
Llama 2-Chat in order to enable the community to build on our work and
contribute to the responsible development of LLMs.

---

## 2. [How is ChatGPT's behavior changing over time?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.09009)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.09009](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09009)

**Authors**: Lingjiao Chen, Matei Zaharia, James Zou

**Published**: 2023-07-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lchen001/llmdrift)

### Abstract

GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 are the two most widely used large language model (LLM)
services. However, when and how these models are updated over time is opaque.
Here, we evaluate the March 2023 and June 2023 versions of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 on
four diverse tasks: 1) solving math problems, 2) answering sensitive/dangerous
questions, 3) generating code and 4) visual reasoning. We find that the
performance and behavior of both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 can vary greatly over time.
For example, GPT-4 (March 2023) was very good at identifying prime numbers
(accuracy 97.6%) but GPT-4 (June 2023) was very poor on these same questions
(accuracy 2.4%). Interestingly GPT-3.5 (June 2023) was much better than GPT-3.5
(March 2023) in this task. GPT-4 was less willing to answer sensitive questions
in June than in March, and both GPT-4 and GPT-3.5 had more formatting mistakes
in code generation in June than in March. Overall, our findings shows that the
behavior of the same LLM service can change substantially in a relatively short
amount of time, highlighting the need for continuous monitoring of LLM quality.

---

## 3. [Does Circuit Analysis Interpretability Scale? Evidence from Multiple
  Choice Capabilities in Chinchilla](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.09458)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.09458](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09458)

**Authors**: Tom Lieberum, Matthew Rahtz, János Kramár, Geoffrey Irving, Rohin Shah, Vladimir Mikulik

**Published**: 2023-07-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Circuit analysis is a promising technique for understanding the
internal mechanisms of language models. However, existing analyses are done in
small models far from the state of the art. To address this, we present a case
study of circuit analysis in the 70B Chinchilla model, aiming to test the
scalability of circuit analysis. In particular, we study multiple-choice
question answering, and investigate Chinchilla's capability to identify the
correct answer label given knowledge of the correct answer text.
We find that the existing techniques of logit attribution, attention pattern
visualization, and activation patching naturally scale to Chinchilla, allowing
us to identify and categorize a small set of `output nodes' (attention heads
and MLPs).
  We further study the `correct letter' category of attention heads aiming to
understand the semantics of their features, with mixed results. For normal
multiple-choice question answers, we significantly compress the query, key and
value subspaces of the head without loss of performance when operating on the
answer labels for multiple-choice questions, and we show that the query and key
subspaces represent an `Nth item in an enumeration' feature to at least some
extent. However, when we attempt to use this explanation to understand the
heads' behaviour on a more general distribution including randomized answer
labels, we find that it is only a partial explanation, suggesting there is more
to learn about the operation of `correct letter' heads on multiple choice
question answering.

---

## 4. [Augmenting CLIP with Improved Visio-Linguistic Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.09233)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.09233](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09233)

**Authors**: Samyadeep Basu, Maziar Sanjabi, Daniela Massiceti, Shell Xu Hu, Soheil Feizi

**Published**: 2023-07-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Image-text contrastive models such as CLIP are useful for a variety of
downstream applications including zero-shot classification, image-text
retrieval and transfer learning. However, these contrastively trained
vision-language models often fail on compositional visio-linguistic tasks such
as Winoground with performance equivalent to random chance. In our paper, we
address this issue and propose a sample-efficient light-weight method called
SDS-CLIP to improve the compositional visio-linguistic reasoning capabilities
of CLIP. The core idea of our method is to use differentiable image
parameterizations to fine-tune CLIP with a distillation objective from large
text-to-image generative models such as Stable-Diffusion which are relatively
good at visio-linguistic reasoning tasks. On the challenging Winoground
compositional reasoning benchmark, our method improves the absolute
visio-linguistic performance of different CLIP models by up to 7%, while on the
ARO dataset, our method improves the visio-linguistic performance by upto 3%.
As a byproduct of inducing visio-linguistic reasoning into CLIP, we also find
that the zero-shot performance improves marginally on a variety of downstream
datasets. Our method reinforces that carefully designed distillation objectives
from generative models can be leveraged to extend existing contrastive
image-text models with improved visio-linguistic reasoning capabilities.

---

## 5. [NU-MCC: Multiview Compressive Coding with Neighborhood Decoder and
  Repulsive UDF](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.09112)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.09112](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09112)

**Organization**: Sea AI Lab

**Authors**: Stefan Lionar, Xiangyu Xu, Min Lin, Gim Hee Lee

**Published**: 2023-07-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sail-sg/numcc)

### Abstract

Remarkable progress has been made in 3D reconstruction from single-view RGB-D
inputs. MCC is the current state-of-the-art method in this field, which
achieves unprecedented success by combining vision Transformers with
large-scale training. However, we identified two key limitations of MCC: 1) The
Transformer decoder is inefficient in handling large number of query points; 2)
The 3D representation struggles to recover high-fidelity details. In this
paper, we propose a new approach called NU-MCC that addresses these
limitations. NU-MCC includes two key innovations: a Neighborhood decoder and a
Repulsive Unsigned Distance Function (Repulsive UDF). First, our Neighborhood
decoder introduces center points as an efficient proxy of input visual
features, allowing each query point to only attend to a small neighborhood.
This design not only results in much faster inference speed but also enables
the exploitation of finer-scale visual features for improved recovery of 3D
textures. Second, our Repulsive UDF is a novel alternative to the occupancy
field used in MCC, significantly improving the quality of 3D object
reconstruction. Compared to standard UDFs that suffer from holes in results,
our proposed Repulsive UDF can achieve more complete surface reconstruction.
Experimental results demonstrate that NU-MCC is able to learn a strong 3D
representation, significantly advancing the state of the art in single-view 3D
reconstruction. Particularly, it outperforms MCC by 9.7% in terms of the
F1-score on the CO3D-v2 dataset with more than 5x faster running speed.

---

## 6. [Biomaker CA: a Biome Maker project using Cellular Automata](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.09320)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.09320](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09320)

**Authors**: Ettore Randazzo, Alexander Mordvintsev

**Published**: 2023-07-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-07-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

We introduce Biomaker CA: a Biome Maker project using Cellular Automata (CA).
In Biomaker CA, morphogenesis is a first class citizen and small seeds need to
grow into plant-like organisms to survive in a nutrient starved environment and
eventually reproduce with variation so that a biome survives for long
timelines. We simulate complex biomes by means of CA rules in 2D grids and
parallelize all of its computation on GPUs through the Python JAX framework. We
show how this project allows for several different kinds of environments and
laws of 'physics', alongside different model architectures and mutation
strategies. We further analyze some configurations to show how plant agents can
grow, survive, reproduce, and evolve, forming stable and unstable biomes. We
then demonstrate how one can meta-evolve models to survive in a harsh
environment either through end-to-end meta-evolution or by a more surgical and
efficient approach, called Petri dish meta-evolution. Finally, we show how to
perform interactive evolution, where the user decides how to evolve a plant
model interactively and then deploys it in a larger environment. We open source
Biomaker CA at: https://tinyurl.com/2x8yu34s .

---
