# Daily Papers - 2024-02-27

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-02-27)

Total papers: 10

---

## 1. [ChatMusician: Understanding and Generating Music Intrinsically with LLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.16153)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.16153](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16153)

**Authors**: Ruibin Yuan, Hanfeng Lin, Yi Wang, Zeyue Tian, Shangda Wu, Tianhao Shen, Ge Zhang, Yuhang Wu, Cong Liu, Ziya Zhou, Ziyang Ma, Liumeng Xue, Ziyu Wang, Qin Liu, Tianyu Zheng, Yizhi Li, Yinghao Ma, Yiming Liang, Xiaowei Chi, Ruibo Liu, Zili Wang, Pengfei Li, Jingcheng Wu, Chenghua Lin, Qifeng Liu, Tao Jiang, Wenhao Huang, Wenhu Chen, Emmanouil Benetos, Jie Fu, Gus Xia, Roger Dannenberg, Shiyin Kang, Yike Guo

**Published**: 2024-02-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 58

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hf-lin/ChatMusician)

### Abstract

While Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate impressive capabilities in
text generation, we find that their ability has yet to be generalized to music,
humanity's creative language. We introduce ChatMusician, an open-source LLM
that integrates intrinsic musical abilities. It is based on continual
pre-training and finetuning LLaMA2 on a text-compatible music representation,
ABC notation, and the music is treated as a second language. ChatMusician can
understand and generate music with a pure text tokenizer without any external
multi-modal neural structures or tokenizers. Interestingly, endowing musical
abilities does not harm language abilities, even achieving a slightly higher
MMLU score. Our model is capable of composing well-structured, full-length
music, conditioned on texts, chords, melodies, motifs, musical forms, etc,
surpassing GPT-4 baseline. On our meticulously curated college-level music
understanding benchmark, MusicTheoryBench, ChatMusician surpasses LLaMA2 and
GPT-3.5 on zero-shot setting by a noticeable margin. Our work reveals that LLMs
can be an excellent compressor for music, but there remains significant
territory to be conquered. We release our 4B token music-language corpora
MusicPile, the collected MusicTheoryBench, code, model and demo in GitHub.

---

## 2. [Nemotron-4 15B Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.16819)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.16819](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16819)

**Authors**: Jupinder Parmar, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Joseph Jennings, Mostofa Patwary, Sandeep Subramanian, Dan Su, Chen Zhu, Deepak Narayanan, Aastha Jhunjhunwala, Ayush Dattagupta, Vibhu Jawa, Jiwei Liu, Ameya Mahabaleshwarkar, Osvald Nitski, Annika Brundyn, James Maki, Miguel Martinez, Jiaxuan You, John Kamalu, Patrick LeGresley, Denys Fridman, Jared Casper, Ashwath Aithal, Oleksii Kuchaiev, Mohammad Shoeybi, Jonathan Cohen, Bryan Catanzaro

**Published**: 2024-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 46

### Abstract

We introduce Nemotron-4 15B, a 15-billion-parameter large multilingual
language model trained on 8 trillion text tokens. Nemotron-4 15B demonstrates
strong performance when assessed on English, multilingual, and coding tasks: it
outperforms all existing similarly-sized open models on 4 out of 7 downstream
evaluation areas and achieves competitive performance to the leading open
models in the remaining ones. Specifically, Nemotron-4 15B exhibits the best
multilingual capabilities of all similarly-sized models, even outperforming
models over four times larger and those explicitly specialized for multilingual
tasks.

---

## 3. [FuseChat: Knowledge Fusion of Chat Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.16107)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.16107](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16107)

**Authors**: Fanqi Wan, Ziyi Yang, Longguang Zhong, Xiaojun Quan, Xinting Huang, Wei Bi

**Published**: 2024-02-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 39

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/fanqiwan/FuseLLM)

### Abstract

While training large language models (LLMs) from scratch can indeed lead to
models with distinct capabilities and strengths, this approach incurs
substantial costs and may lead to potential redundancy in competencies. An
alternative strategy is to combine existing LLMs into a more robust LLM,
thereby diminishing the necessity for expensive pre-training. However, due to
the diverse architectures of LLMs, direct parameter blending proves to be
unfeasible. Recently, FuseLLM introduced the concept of knowledge
fusion to transfer the collective knowledge of multiple structurally varied
LLMs into a target LLM through lightweight continual training. In this report,
we extend the scalability and flexibility of the FuseLLM framework to
realize the fusion of chat LLMs, resulting in FuseChat.
FuseChat comprises two main stages. Firstly, we undertake knowledge
fusion for structurally and scale-varied source LLMs to derive multiple target
LLMs of identical structure and size via lightweight fine-tuning. Then, these
target LLMs are merged within the parameter space, wherein we propose a novel
method for determining the merging weights based on the variation ratio of
parameter matrices before and after fine-tuning. We validate our approach using
three prominent chat LLMs with diverse architectures and scales, namely
NH2-Mixtral-8x7B, NH2-Solar-10.7B, and
OpenChat-3.5-7B. Experimental results spanning various chat domains
demonstrate the superiority of \textsc{FuseChat-7B} across a broad
spectrum of chat LLMs at 7B and 34B scales, even surpassing GPT-3.5
(March) and approaching Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct. Our code, model
weights, and data are openly accessible at
https://github.com/fanqiwan/FuseLLM.

---

## 4. [MegaScale: Scaling Large Language Model Training to More Than 10,000
  GPUs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.15627)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.15627](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15627)

**Authors**: Ziheng Jiang, Haibin Lin, Yinmin Zhong, Qi Huang, Yangrui Chen, Zhi Zhang, Yanghua Peng, Xiang Li, Cong Xie, Shibiao Nong, Yulu Jia, Sun He, Hongmin Chen, Zhihao Bai, Qi Hou, Shipeng Yan, Ding Zhou, Yiyao Sheng, Zhuo Jiang, Haohan Xu, Haoran Wei, Zhang Zhang, Pengfei Nie, Leqi Zou, Sida Zhao, Liang Xiang, Zherui Liu, Zhe Li, Xiaoying Jia, Jianxi Ye, Xin Jin, Xin Liu

**Published**: 2024-02-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 36

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/volcengine/vescale)

### Abstract

We present the design, implementation and engineering experience in building
and deploying MegaScale, a production system for training large language models
(LLMs) at the scale of more than 10,000 GPUs. Training LLMs at this scale
brings unprecedented challenges to training efficiency and stability. We take a
full-stack approach that co-designs the algorithmic and system components
across model block and optimizer design, computation and communication
overlapping, operator optimization, data pipeline, and network performance
tuning. Maintaining high efficiency throughout the training process (i.e.,
stability) is an important consideration in production given the long extent of
LLM training jobs. Many hard stability issues only emerge at large scale, and
in-depth observability is the key to address them. We develop a set of
diagnosis tools to monitor system components and events deep in the stack,
identify root causes, and derive effective techniques to achieve fault
tolerance and mitigate stragglers. MegaScale achieves 55.2% Model FLOPs
Utilization (MFU) when training a 175B LLM model on 12,288 GPUs, improving the
MFU by 1.34x compared to Megatron-LM. We share our operational experience in
identifying and fixing failures and stragglers. We hope by articulating the
problems and sharing our experience from a systems perspective, this work can
inspire future LLM systems research.

---

## 5. [Multi-LoRA Composition for Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.16843)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.16843](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16843)

**Authors**: Ming Zhong, Yelong Shen, Shuohang Wang, Yadong Lu, Yizhu Jiao, Siru Ouyang, Donghan Yu, Jiawei Han, Weizhu Chen

**Published**: 2024-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

### Abstract

Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) is extensively utilized in text-to-image models
for the accurate rendition of specific elements like distinct characters or
unique styles in generated images. Nonetheless, existing methods face
challenges in effectively composing multiple LoRAs, especially as the number of
LoRAs to be integrated grows, thus hindering the creation of complex imagery.
In this paper, we study multi-LoRA composition through a decoding-centric
perspective. We present two training-free methods: LoRA Switch, which
alternates between different LoRAs at each denoising step, and LoRA Composite,
which simultaneously incorporates all LoRAs to guide more cohesive image
synthesis. To evaluate the proposed approaches, we establish ComposLoRA, a new
comprehensive testbed as part of this research. It features a diverse range of
LoRA categories with 480 composition sets. Utilizing an evaluation framework
based on GPT-4V, our findings demonstrate a clear improvement in performance
with our methods over the prevalent baseline, particularly evident when
increasing the number of LoRAs in a composition.

---

## 6. [Do Large Language Models Latently Perform Multi-Hop Reasoning?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.16837)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.16837](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16837)

**Authors**: Sohee Yang, Elena Gribovskaya, Nora Kassner, Mor Geva, Sebastian Riedel

**Published**: 2024-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-deepmind/latent-multi-hop-reasoning)

### Abstract

We study whether Large Language Models (LLMs) latently perform multi-hop
reasoning with complex prompts such as "The mother of the singer of
'Superstition' is". We look for evidence of a latent reasoning pathway where an
LLM (1) latently identifies "the singer of 'Superstition'" as Stevie Wonder,
the bridge entity, and (2) uses its knowledge of Stevie Wonder's mother to
complete the prompt. We analyze these two hops individually and consider their
co-occurrence as indicative of latent multi-hop reasoning. For the first hop,
we test if changing the prompt to indirectly mention the bridge entity instead
of any other entity increases the LLM's internal recall of the bridge entity.
For the second hop, we test if increasing this recall causes the LLM to better
utilize what it knows about the bridge entity. We find strong evidence of
latent multi-hop reasoning for the prompts of certain relation types, with the
reasoning pathway used in more than 80% of the prompts. However, the
utilization is highly contextual, varying across different types of prompts.
Also, on average, the evidence for the second hop and the full multi-hop
traversal is rather moderate and only substantial for the first hop. Moreover,
we find a clear scaling trend with increasing model size for the first hop of
reasoning but not for the second hop. Our experimental findings suggest
potential challenges and opportunities for future development and applications
of LLMs.

---

## 7. [StructLM: Towards Building Generalist Models for Structured Knowledge
  Grounding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.16671)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.16671](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16671)

**Authors**: Alex Zhuang, Ge Zhang, Tianyu Zheng, Xinrun Du, Junjie Wang, Weiming Ren, Stephen W. Huang, Jie Fu, Xiang Yue, Wenhu Chen

**Published**: 2024-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

Structured data sources, such as tables, graphs, and databases, are
ubiquitous knowledge sources. Despite the demonstrated capabilities of large
language models (LLMs) on plain text, their proficiency in interpreting and
utilizing structured data remains limited. Our investigation reveals a notable
deficiency in LLMs' ability to process structured data, e.g., ChatGPT lags
behind state-of-the-art (SoTA) model by an average of 35%. To augment the
Structured Knowledge Grounding (SKG) capabilities in LLMs, we have developed a
comprehensive instruction tuning dataset comprising 1.1 million examples.
Utilizing this dataset, we train a series of models, referred to as StructLM,
based on the Code-LLaMA architecture, ranging from 7B to 34B parameters. Our
StructLM series surpasses task-specific models on 14 out of 18 evaluated
datasets and establishes new SoTA achievements on 7 SKG tasks. Furthermore,
StructLM demonstrates exceptional generalization across 6 novel SKG tasks.
Contrary to expectations, we observe that scaling model size offers marginal
benefits, with StructLM-34B showing only slight improvements over StructLM-7B.
This suggests that structured knowledge grounding is still a challenging task
and requires more innovative design to push to a new level.

---

## 8. [MobiLlama: Towards Accurate and Lightweight Fully Transparent GPT](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.16840)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.16840](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16840)

**Authors**: Omkar Thawakar, Ashmal Vayani, Salman Khan, Hisham Cholakal, Rao M. Anwer, Michael Felsberg, Tim Baldwin, Eric P. Xing, Fahad Shahbaz Khan

**Published**: 2024-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/mobillama)

### Abstract

"Bigger the better" has been the predominant trend in recent Large Language
Models (LLMs) development. However, LLMs do not suit well for scenarios that
require on-device processing, energy efficiency, low memory footprint, and
response efficiency. These requisites are crucial for privacy, security, and
sustainable deployment. This paper explores the "less is more" paradigm by
addressing the challenge of designing accurate yet efficient Small Language
Models (SLMs) for resource constrained devices. Our primary contribution is the
introduction of an accurate and fully transparent open-source 0.5 billion
(0.5B) parameter SLM, named MobiLlama, catering to the specific needs of
resource-constrained computing with an emphasis on enhanced performance with
reduced resource demands. MobiLlama is a SLM design that initiates from a
larger model and applies a careful parameter sharing scheme to reduce both the
pre-training and the deployment cost. Our work strives to not only bridge the
gap in open-source SLMs but also ensures full transparency, where complete
training data pipeline, training code, model weights, and over 300 checkpoints
along with evaluation codes is available at :
https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/MobiLlama.

---

## 9. [Rainbow Teaming: Open-Ended Generation of Diverse Adversarial Prompts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.16822)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.16822](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16822)

**Authors**: Mikayel Samvelyan, Sharath Chandra Raparthy, Andrei Lupu, Eric Hambro, Aram H. Markosyan, Manish Bhatt, Yuning Mao, Minqi Jiang, Jack Parker-Holder, Jakob Foerster, Tim Rocktäschel, Roberta Raileanu

**Published**: 2024-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

As large language models (LLMs) become increasingly prevalent across many
real-world applications, understanding and enhancing their robustness to user
inputs is of paramount importance. Existing methods for identifying adversarial
prompts tend to focus on specific domains, lack diversity, or require extensive
human annotations. To address these limitations, we present Rainbow Teaming, a
novel approach for producing a diverse collection of adversarial prompts.
Rainbow Teaming casts adversarial prompt generation as a quality-diversity
problem, and uses open-ended search to generate prompts that are both effective
and diverse. It can uncover a model's vulnerabilities across a broad range of
domains including, in this paper, safety, question answering, and
cybersecurity. We also demonstrate that fine-tuning on synthetic data generated
by Rainbow Teaming improves the safety of state-of-the-art LLMs without hurting
their general capabilities and helpfulness, paving the path to open-ended
self-improvement.

---

## 10. [Towards Open-ended Visual Quality Comparison](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.16641)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.16641](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16641)

**Authors**: Hanwei Zhu, Zicheng Zhang, Erli Zhang, Chaofeng Chen, Liang Liao, Chunyi Li, Annan Wang, Wenxiu Sun, Qiong Yan, Xiaohong Liu, Guangtao Zhai, Shiqi Wang, Weisi Lin

**Published**: 2024-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Comparative settings (e.g. pairwise choice, listwise ranking) have been
adopted by a wide range of subjective studies for image quality assessment
(IQA), as it inherently standardizes the evaluation criteria across different
observers and offer more clear-cut responses. In this work, we extend the edge
of emerging large multi-modality models (LMMs) to further advance visual
quality comparison into open-ended settings, that 1) can respond to open-range
questions on quality comparison; 2) can provide detailed reasonings beyond
direct answers. To this end, we propose the Co-Instruct. To train this
first-of-its-kind open-source open-ended visual quality comparer, we collect
the Co-Instruct-562K dataset, from two sources: (a) LMM-merged single image
quality description, (b) GPT-4V "teacher" responses on unlabeled data.
Furthermore, to better evaluate this setting, we propose the MICBench, the
first benchmark on multi-image comparison for LMMs. We demonstrate that
Co-Instruct not only achieves 30% higher superior accuracy than
state-of-the-art open-source LMMs, but also outperforms GPT-4V (its teacher),
on both existing related benchmarks and the proposed MICBench. Our model is
published at https://huggingface.co/q-future/co-instruct.

---
