# Daily Papers - 2024-02-05

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-02-05)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [Specialized Language Models with Cheap Inference from Limited Domain
  Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01093)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.01093](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01093)

**Authors**: David Grangier, Angelos Katharopoulos, Pierre Ablin, Awni Hannun

**Published**: 2024-02-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 47

### Abstract

Large language models have emerged as a versatile tool but are challenging to
apply to tasks lacking large inference budgets and large in-domain training
sets. This work formalizes these constraints and distinguishes four important
variables: the pretraining budget (for training before the target domain is
known), the specialization budget (for training after the target domain is
known), the inference budget, and the in-domain training set size. Across these
settings, we compare different approaches from the machine learning literature.
Limited by inference cost, we find better alternatives to the standard practice
of training very large vanilla transformer models. In particular, we show that
hyper-networks and mixture of experts have better perplexity for large
pretraining budgets, while small models trained on importance sampled datasets
are attractive for large specialization budgets.

---

## 2. [StepCoder: Improve Code Generation with Reinforcement Learning from
  Compiler Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01391)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.01391](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01391)

**Authors**: Shihan Dou, Yan Liu, Haoxiang Jia, Limao Xiong, Enyu Zhou, Junjie Shan, Caishuang Huang, Wei Shen, Xiaoran Fan, Zhiheng Xi, Tao Ji, Rui Zheng, Qi Zhang, Xuanjing Huang, Tao Gui

**Published**: 2024-02-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 43

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ablustrund/apps_plus)

### Abstract

The advancement of large language models (LLMs) has significantly propelled
the field of code generation. Previous work integrated reinforcement learning
(RL) with compiler feedback for exploring the output space of LLMs to enhance
code generation quality. However, the lengthy code generated by LLMs in
response to complex human requirements makes RL exploration a challenge. Also,
since the unit tests may not cover the complicated code, optimizing LLMs by
using these unexecuted code snippets is ineffective. To tackle these
challenges, we introduce StepCoder, a novel RL framework for code generation,
consisting of two main components: CCCS addresses the exploration challenge by
breaking the long sequences code generation task into a Curriculum of Code
Completion Subtasks, while FGO only optimizes the model by masking the
unexecuted code segments to provide Fine-Grained Optimization. In addition, we
furthermore construct the APPS+ dataset for RL training, which is manually
verified to ensure the correctness of unit tests. Experimental results show
that our method improves the ability to explore the output space and
outperforms state-of-the-art approaches in corresponding benchmarks.

---

## 3. [TravelPlanner: A Benchmark for Real-World Planning with Language Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01622)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.01622](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01622)

**Authors**: Jian Xie, Kai Zhang, Jiangjie Chen, Tinghui Zhu, Renze Lou, Yuandong Tian, Yanghua Xiao, Yu Su

**Published**: 2024-02-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OSU-NLP-Group/TravelPlanner)

### Abstract

Planning has been part of the core pursuit for artificial intelligence since
its conception, but earlier AI agents mostly focused on constrained settings
because many of the cognitive substrates necessary for human-level planning
have been lacking. Recently, language agents powered by large language models
(LLMs) have shown interesting capabilities such as tool use and reasoning. Are
these language agents capable of planning in more complex settings that are out
of the reach of prior AI agents? To advance this investigation, we propose
TravelPlanner, a new planning benchmark that focuses on travel planning, a
common real-world planning scenario. It provides a rich sandbox environment,
various tools for accessing nearly four million data records, and 1,225
meticulously curated planning intents and reference plans. Comprehensive
evaluations show that the current language agents are not yet capable of
handling such complex planning tasks-even GPT-4 only achieves a success rate of
0.6%. Language agents struggle to stay on task, use the right tools to collect
information, or keep track of multiple constraints. However, we note that the
mere possibility for language agents to tackle such a complex problem is in
itself non-trivial progress. TravelPlanner provides a challenging yet
meaningful testbed for future language agents.

---

## 4. [PokéLLMon: A Human-Parity Agent for Pokémon Battles with Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01118)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.01118](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01118)

**Authors**: Sihao Hu, Tiansheng Huang, Ling Liu

**Published**: 2024-02-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/git-disl/pokellmon)

### Abstract

We introduce Pok\'eLLMon, the first LLM-embodied agent that achieves
human-parity performance in tactical battle games, as demonstrated in Pok\'emon
battles. The design of Pok\'eLLMon incorporates three key strategies:
(i) In-context reinforcement learning that instantly consumes text-based
feedback derived from battles to iteratively refine the policy; (ii)
Knowledge-augmented generation that retrieves external knowledge to counteract
hallucination and enables the agent to act timely and properly; (iii)
Consistent action generation to mitigate the panic switching
phenomenon when the agent faces a powerful opponent and wants to elude the
battle. We show that online battles against human demonstrates
Pok\'eLLMon's human-like battle strategies and just-in-time decision
making, achieving 49\% of win rate in the Ladder competitions and 56\% of win
rate in the invited battles. Our implementation and playable battle logs are
available at: https://github.com/git-disl/PokeLLMon.

---

## 5. [Boximator: Generating Rich and Controllable Motions for Video Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01566)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.01566](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01566)

**Authors**: Jiawei Wang, Yuchen Zhang, Jiaxin Zou, Yan Zeng, Guoqiang Wei, Liping Yuan, Hang Li

**Published**: 2024-02-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

Generating rich and controllable motion is a pivotal challenge in video
synthesis. We propose Boximator, a new approach for fine-grained motion
control. Boximator introduces two constraint types: hard box and soft box.
Users select objects in the conditional frame using hard boxes and then use
either type of boxes to roughly or rigorously define the object's position,
shape, or motion path in future frames. Boximator functions as a plug-in for
existing video diffusion models. Its training process preserves the base
model's knowledge by freezing the original weights and training only the
control module. To address training challenges, we introduce a novel
self-tracking technique that greatly simplifies the learning of box-object
correlations. Empirically, Boximator achieves state-of-the-art video quality
(FVD) scores, improving on two base models, and further enhanced after
incorporating box constraints. Its robust motion controllability is validated
by drastic increases in the bounding box alignment metric. Human evaluation
also shows that users favor Boximator generation results over the base model.

---

## 6. [Repeat After Me: Transformers are Better than State Space Models at
  Copying](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01032)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.01032](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01032)

**Authors**: Samy Jelassi, David Brandfonbrener, Sham M. Kakade, Eran Malach

**Published**: 2024-02-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sjelassi/transformers_ssm_copy)

### Abstract

Transformers are the dominant architecture for sequence modeling, but there
is growing interest in models that use a fixed-size latent state that does not
depend on the sequence length, which we refer to as "generalized state space
models" (GSSMs). In this paper we show that while GSSMs are promising in terms
of inference-time efficiency, they are limited compared to transformer models
on tasks that require copying from the input context. We start with a
theoretical analysis of the simple task of string copying and prove that a two
layer transformer can copy strings of exponential length while GSSMs are
fundamentally limited by their fixed-size latent state. Empirically, we find
that transformers outperform GSSMs in terms of efficiency and generalization on
synthetic tasks that require copying the context. Finally, we evaluate
pretrained large language models and find that transformer models dramatically
outperform state space models at copying and retrieving information from
context. Taken together, these results suggest a fundamental gap between
transformers and GSSMs on tasks of practical interest.

---

## 7. [K-Level Reasoning with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01521)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.01521](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01521)

**Authors**: Yadong Zhang, Shaoguang Mao, Tao Ge, Xun Wang, Yan Xia, Man Lan, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2024-02-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

While Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated their proficiency in
complex reasoning tasks, their performance in dynamic, interactive, and
competitive scenarios - such as business strategy and stock market analysis -
remains underexplored. To bridge this gap, we formally explore the dynamic
reasoning capabilities of LLMs for decision-making in rapidly evolving
environments. We introduce two game theory-based pilot challenges that mirror
the complexities of real-world dynamic decision-making. These challenges are
well-defined, enabling clear, controllable, and precise evaluation of LLMs'
dynamic reasoning abilities. Through extensive experiments, we find that
existing reasoning methods tend to falter in dynamic settings that require
k-level thinking - a key concept not tackled by previous works. To address
this, we propose a novel reasoning approach for LLMs, named "K-Level
Reasoning". This approach adopts the perspective of rivals to recursively
employ k-level thinking based on available historical information, which
significantly improves the prediction accuracy of rivals' subsequent moves and
informs more strategic decision-making. This research not only sets a robust
quantitative benchmark for the assessment of dynamic reasoning but also
markedly enhances the proficiency of LLMs in dynamic contexts.

---

## 8. [Nomic Embed: Training a Reproducible Long Context Text Embedder](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01613)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.01613](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01613)

**Authors**: Zach Nussbaum, John X. Morris, Brandon Duderstadt, Andriy Mulyar

**Published**: 2024-02-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

This technical report describes the training of nomic-embed-text-v1, the
first fully reproducible, open-source, open-weights, open-data, 8192 context
length English text embedding model that outperforms both OpenAI Ada-002 and
OpenAI text-embedding-3-small on short and long-context tasks. We release the
training code and model weights under an Apache 2 license. In contrast with
other open-source models, we release a training data loader with 235 million
curated text pairs that allows for the full replication of nomic-embed-text-v1.
You can find code and data to replicate the model at
https://github.com/nomic-ai/contrastors

---

## 9. [EVA-GAN: Enhanced Various Audio Generation via Scalable Generative
  Adversarial Networks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.00892)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.00892](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.00892)

**Authors**: Shijia Liao, Shiyi Lan, Arun George Zachariah

**Published**: 2024-01-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

The advent of Large Models marks a new era in machine learning, significantly
outperforming smaller models by leveraging vast datasets to capture and
synthesize complex patterns. Despite these advancements, the exploration into
scaling, especially in the audio generation domain, remains limited, with
previous efforts didn't extend into the high-fidelity (HiFi) 44.1kHz domain and
suffering from both spectral discontinuities and blurriness in the
high-frequency domain, alongside a lack of robustness against out-of-domain
data. These limitations restrict the applicability of models to diverse use
cases, including music and singing generation. Our work introduces Enhanced
Various Audio Generation via Scalable Generative Adversarial Networks
(EVA-GAN), yields significant improvements over previous state-of-the-art in
spectral and high-frequency reconstruction and robustness in out-of-domain data
performance, enabling the generation of HiFi audios by employing an extensive
dataset of 36,000 hours of 44.1kHz audio, a context-aware module, a
Human-In-The-Loop artifact measurement toolkit, and expands the model to
approximately 200 million parameters. Demonstrations of our work are available
at https://double-blind-eva-gan.cc.

---
