# Daily Papers - 2024-02-14

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-02-14)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [BASE TTS: Lessons from building a billion-parameter Text-to-Speech model
  on 100K hours of data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08093)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08093](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08093)

**Authors**: Mateusz Łajszczak, Guillermo Cámbara, Yang Li, Fatih Beyhan, Arent van Korlaar, Fan Yang, Arnaud Joly, Álvaro Martín-Cortinas, Ammar Abbas, Adam Michalski, Alexis Moinet, Sri Karlapati, Ewa Muszyńska, Haohan Guo, Bartosz Putrycz, Soledad López Gambino, Kayeon Yoo, Elena Sokolova, Thomas Drugman

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 62

### Abstract

We introduce a text-to-speech (TTS) model called BASE TTS, which stands for
Big Adaptive Streamable TTS with
Emergent abilities. BASE TTS is the largest TTS model to-date,
trained on 100K hours of public domain speech data, achieving a new
state-of-the-art in speech naturalness. It deploys a 1-billion-parameter
autoregressive Transformer that converts raw texts into discrete codes
("speechcodes") followed by a convolution-based decoder which converts these
speechcodes into waveforms in an incremental, streamable manner. Further, our
speechcodes are built using a novel speech tokenization technique that features
speaker ID disentanglement and compression with byte-pair encoding. Echoing the
widely-reported "emergent abilities" of large language models when trained on
increasing volume of data, we show that BASE TTS variants built with 10K+ hours
and 500M+ parameters begin to demonstrate natural prosody on textually complex
sentences. We design and share a specialized dataset to measure these emergent
abilities for text-to-speech. We showcase state-of-the-art naturalness of BASE
TTS by evaluating against baselines that include publicly available large-scale
text-to-speech systems: YourTTS, Bark and TortoiseTTS. Audio samples generated
by the model can be heard at https://amazon-ltts-paper.com/.

---

## 2. [World Model on Million-Length Video And Language With RingAttention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08268)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08268](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08268)

**Authors**: Hao Liu, Wilson Yan, Matei Zaharia, Pieter Abbeel

**Published**: 2024-02-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 40

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/LargeWorldModel/LWM)

### Abstract

Current language models fall short in understanding aspects of the world not
easily described in words, and struggle with complex, long-form tasks. Video
sequences offer valuable temporal information absent in language and static
images, making them attractive for joint modeling with language. Such models
could develop a understanding of both human textual knowledge and the physical
world, enabling broader AI capabilities for assisting humans. However, learning
from millions of tokens of video and language sequences poses challenges due to
memory constraints, computational complexity, and limited datasets. To address
these challenges, we curate a large dataset of diverse videos and books,
utilize the RingAttention technique to scalably train on long sequences, and
gradually increase context size from 4K to 1M tokens. This paper makes the
following contributions: (a) Largest context size neural network: We train one
of the largest context size transformers on long video and language sequences,
setting new benchmarks in difficult retrieval tasks and long video
understanding. (b) Solutions for overcoming vision-language training
challenges, including using masked sequence packing for mixing different
sequence lengths, loss weighting to balance language and vision, and
model-generated QA dataset for long sequence chat. (c) A highly-optimized
implementation with RingAttention, masked sequence packing, and other key
features for training on millions-length multimodal sequences. (d) Fully
open-sourced a family of 7B parameter models capable of processing long text
documents (LWM-Text, LWM-Text-Chat) and videos (LWM, LWM-Chat) of over 1M
tokens. This work paves the way for training on massive datasets of long video
and language to develop understanding of both human knowledge and the
multimodal world, and broader capabilities.

---

## 3. [Mixtures of Experts Unlock Parameter Scaling for Deep RL](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08609)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08609](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08609)

**Authors**: Johan Obando-Ceron, Ghada Sokar, Timon Willi, Clare Lyle, Jesse Farebrother, Jakob Foerster, Gintare Karolina Dziugaite, Doina Precup, Pablo Samuel Castro

**Published**: 2024-02-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 36

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google/dopamine)

### Abstract

The recent rapid progress in (self) supervised learning models is in large
part predicted by empirical scaling laws: a model's performance scales
proportionally to its size. Analogous scaling laws remain elusive for
reinforcement learning domains, however, where increasing the parameter count
of a model often hurts its final performance. In this paper, we demonstrate
that incorporating Mixture-of-Expert (MoE) modules, and in particular Soft MoEs
(Puigcerver et al., 2023), into value-based networks results in more
parameter-scalable models, evidenced by substantial performance increases
across a variety of training regimes and model sizes. This work thus provides
strong empirical evidence towards developing scaling laws for reinforcement
learning.

---

## 4. [Lumos : Empowering Multimodal LLMs with Scene Text Recognition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08017)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08017](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08017)

**Authors**: Ashish Shenoy, Yichao Lu, Srihari Jayakumar, Debojeet Chatterjee, Mohsen Moslehpour, Pierce Chuang, Abhay Harpale, Vikas Bhardwaj, Di Xu, Shicong Zhao, Longfang Zhao, Ankit Ramchandani, Xin Luna Dong, Anuj Kumar

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

We introduce Lumos, the first end-to-end multimodal question-answering system
with text understanding capabilities. At the core of Lumos is a Scene Text
Recognition (STR) component that extracts text from first person point-of-view
images, the output of which is used to augment input to a Multimodal Large
Language Model (MM-LLM). While building Lumos, we encountered numerous
challenges related to STR quality, overall latency, and model inference. In
this paper, we delve into those challenges, and discuss the system
architecture, design choices, and modeling techniques employed to overcome
these obstacles. We also provide a comprehensive evaluation for each component,
showcasing high quality and efficiency.

---

## 5. [Graph Mamba: Towards Learning on Graphs with State Space Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08678)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08678](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08678)

**Authors**: Ali Behrouz, Farnoosh Hashemi

**Published**: 2024-02-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have shown promising potential in graph
representation learning. The majority of GNNs define a local message-passing
mechanism, propagating information over the graph by stacking multiple layers.
These methods, however, are known to suffer from two major limitations:
over-squashing and poor capturing of long-range dependencies. Recently, Graph
Transformers (GTs) emerged as a powerful alternative to Message-Passing Neural
Networks (MPNNs). GTs, however, have quadratic computational cost, lack
inductive biases on graph structures, and rely on complex Positional/Structural
Encodings (SE/PE). In this paper, we show that while Transformers, complex
message-passing, and SE/PE are sufficient for good performance in practice,
neither is necessary. Motivated by the recent success of State Space Models
(SSMs), such as Mamba, we present Graph Mamba Networks (GMNs), a general
framework for a new class of GNNs based on selective SSMs. We discuss and
categorize the new challenges when adopting SSMs to graph-structured data, and
present four required and one optional steps to design GMNs, where we choose
(1) Neighborhood Tokenization, (2) Token Ordering, (3) Architecture of
Bidirectional Selective SSM Encoder, (4) Local Encoding, and dispensable (5) PE
and SE. We further provide theoretical justification for the power of GMNs.
Experiments demonstrate that despite much less computational cost, GMNs attain
an outstanding performance in long-range, small-scale, large-scale, and
heterophilic benchmark datasets.

---

## 6. [UFO: A UI-Focused Agent for Windows OS Interaction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07939)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07939](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07939)

**Authors**: Chaoyun Zhang, Liqun Li, Shilin He, Xu Zhang, Bo Qiao, Si Qin, Minghua Ma, Yu Kang, Qingwei Lin, Saravan Rajmohan, Dongmei Zhang, Qi Zhang

**Published**: 2024-02-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

We introduce UFO, an innovative UI-Focused agent to fulfill user requests
tailored to applications on Windows OS, harnessing the capabilities of
GPT-Vision. UFO employs a dual-agent framework to meticulously observe and
analyze the graphical user interface (GUI) and control information of Windows
applications. This enables the agent to seamlessly navigate and operate within
individual applications and across them to fulfill user requests, even when
spanning multiple applications. The framework incorporates a control
interaction module, facilitating action grounding without human intervention
and enabling fully automated execution. Consequently, UFO transforms arduous
and time-consuming processes into simple tasks achievable solely through
natural language commands. We conducted testing of UFO across 9 popular Windows
applications, encompassing a variety of scenarios reflective of users' daily
usage. The results, derived from both quantitative metrics and real-case
studies, underscore the superior effectiveness of UFO in fulfilling user
requests. To the best of our knowledge, UFO stands as the first UI agent
specifically tailored for task completion within the Windows OS environment.
The open-source code for UFO is available on https://github.com/microsoft/UFO.

---

## 7. [IM-3D: Iterative Multiview Diffusion and Reconstruction for High-Quality
  3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08682)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08682](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08682)

**Authors**: Luke Melas-Kyriazi, Iro Laina, Christian Rupprecht, Natalia Neverova, Andrea Vedaldi, Oran Gafni, Filippos Kokkinos

**Published**: 2024-02-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Most text-to-3D generators build upon off-the-shelf text-to-image models
trained on billions of images. They use variants of Score Distillation Sampling
(SDS), which is slow, somewhat unstable, and prone to artifacts. A mitigation
is to fine-tune the 2D generator to be multi-view aware, which can help
distillation or can be combined with reconstruction networks to output 3D
objects directly. In this paper, we further explore the design space of
text-to-3D models. We significantly improve multi-view generation by
considering video instead of image generators. Combined with a 3D
reconstruction algorithm which, by using Gaussian splatting, can optimize a
robust image-based loss, we directly produce high-quality 3D outputs from the
generated views. Our new method, IM-3D, reduces the number of evaluations of
the 2D generator network 10-100x, resulting in a much more efficient pipeline,
better quality, fewer geometric inconsistencies, and higher yield of usable 3D
assets.

---

## 8. [ChatCell: Facilitating Single-Cell Analysis with Natural Language](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08303)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08303](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08303)

**Authors**: Kangwei Liu, Ningyu Zhang, Xinle Deng, Zhuo Chen, Xiangru Tang, Mark Gerstein, Xiaohui Fan, Huajun Chen

**Published**: 2024-02-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zjunlp/chatcell)

### Abstract

As Large Language Models (LLMs) rapidly evolve, their influence in science is
becoming increasingly prominent. The emerging capabilities of LLMs in task
generalization and free-form dialogue can significantly advance fields like
chemistry and biology. However, the field of single-cell biology, which forms
the foundational building blocks of living organisms, still faces several
challenges. High knowledge barriers and limited scalability in current methods
restrict the full exploitation of LLMs in mastering single-cell data, impeding
direct accessibility and rapid iteration. To this end, we introduce ChatCell,
which signifies a paradigm shift by facilitating single-cell analysis with
natural language. Leveraging vocabulary adaptation and unified sequence
generation, ChatCell has acquired profound expertise in single-cell biology and
the capability to accommodate a diverse range of analysis tasks. Extensive
experiments further demonstrate ChatCell's robust performance and potential to
deepen single-cell insights, paving the way for more accessible and intuitive
exploration in this pivotal field. Our project homepage is available at
https://zjunlp.github.io/project/ChatCell.

---

## 9. [Learning Continuous 3D Words for Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08654)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08654](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08654)

**Authors**: Ta-Ying Cheng, Matheus Gadelha, Thibault Groueix, Matthew Fisher, Radomir Mech, Andrew Markham, Niki Trigoni

**Published**: 2024-02-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ttchengab/continuous_3d_words_code)

### Abstract

Current controls over diffusion models (e.g., through text or ControlNet) for
image generation fall short in recognizing abstract, continuous attributes like
illumination direction or non-rigid shape change. In this paper, we present an
approach for allowing users of text-to-image models to have fine-grained
control of several attributes in an image. We do this by engineering special
sets of input tokens that can be transformed in a continuous manner -- we call
them Continuous 3D Words. These attributes can, for example, be represented as
sliders and applied jointly with text prompts for fine-grained control over
image generation. Given only a single mesh and a rendering engine, we show that
our approach can be adopted to provide continuous user control over several
3D-aware attributes, including time-of-day illumination, bird wing orientation,
dollyzoom effect, and object poses. Our method is capable of conditioning image
creation with multiple Continuous 3D Words and text descriptions simultaneously
while adding no overhead to the generative process. Project Page:
https://ttchengab.github.io/continuous_3d_words

---

## 10. [Tandem Transformers for Inference Efficient LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08644)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08644](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08644)

**Authors**: Aishwarya P S, Pranav Ajit Nair, Yashas Samaga, Toby Boyd, Sanjiv Kumar, Prateek Jain, Praneeth Netrapalli

**Published**: 2024-02-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

The autoregressive nature of conventional large language models (LLMs)
inherently limits inference speed, as tokens are generated sequentially. While
speculative and parallel decoding techniques attempt to mitigate this, they
face limitations: either relying on less accurate smaller models for generation
or failing to fully leverage the base LLM's representations.
  We introduce a novel architecture, Tandem transformers, to address these
issues. This architecture uniquely combines (1) a small autoregressive model
and (2) a large model operating in block mode (processing multiple tokens
simultaneously). The small model's predictive accuracy is substantially
enhanced by granting it attention to the large model's richer representations.
On the PaLM2 pretraining dataset, a tandem of PaLM2-Bison and PaLM2-Gecko
demonstrates a 3.3% improvement in next-token prediction accuracy over a
standalone PaLM2-Gecko, offering a 1.16x speedup compared to a PaLM2-Otter
model with comparable downstream performance. We further incorporate the tandem
model within the speculative decoding (SPEED) framework where the large model
validates tokens from the small model. This ensures that the Tandem of
PaLM2-Bison and PaLM2-Gecko achieves substantial speedup (around 1.14x faster
than using vanilla PaLM2-Gecko in SPEED) while maintaining identical downstream
task accuracy.

---

## 11. [Vision-Based Hand Gesture Customization from a Single Demonstration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08420)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08420](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08420)

**Authors**: Soroush Shahi, Cori Tymoszek Park, Richard Kang, Asaf Liberman, Oron Levy, Jun Gong, Abdelkareem Bedri, Gierad Laput

**Published**: 2024-02-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Hand gesture recognition is becoming a more prevalent mode of human-computer
interaction, especially as cameras proliferate across everyday devices. Despite
continued progress in this field, gesture customization is often underexplored.
Customization is crucial since it enables users to define and demonstrate
gestures that are more natural, memorable, and accessible. However,
customization requires efficient usage of user-provided data. We introduce a
method that enables users to easily design bespoke gestures with a monocular
camera from one demonstration. We employ transformers and meta-learning
techniques to address few-shot learning challenges. Unlike prior work, our
method supports any combination of one-handed, two-handed, static, and dynamic
gestures, including different viewpoints. We evaluated our customization method
through a user study with 20 gestures collected from 21 participants, achieving
up to 97% average recognition accuracy from one demonstration. Our work
provides a viable path for vision-based gesture customization, laying the
foundation for future advancements in this domain.

---

## 12. [NeRF Analogies: Example-Based Visual Attribute Transfer for NeRFs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.08622)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.08622](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08622)

**Authors**: Michael Fischer, Zhengqin Li, Thu Nguyen-Phuoc, Aljaz Bozic, Zhao Dong, Carl Marshall, Tobias Ritschel

**Published**: 2024-02-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

A Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) encodes the specific relation of 3D geometry
and appearance of a scene. We here ask the question whether we can transfer the
appearance from a source NeRF onto a target 3D geometry in a semantically
meaningful way, such that the resulting new NeRF retains the target geometry
but has an appearance that is an analogy to the source NeRF. To this end, we
generalize classic image analogies from 2D images to NeRFs. We leverage
correspondence transfer along semantic affinity that is driven by semantic
features from large, pre-trained 2D image models to achieve multi-view
consistent appearance transfer. Our method allows exploring the mix-and-match
product space of 3D geometry and appearance. We show that our method
outperforms traditional stylization-based methods and that a large majority of
users prefer our method over several typical baselines.

---
