# Daily Papers - 2024-02-25

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-02-25)

Total papers: 3

---

## 1. [Orca-Math: Unlocking the potential of SLMs in Grade School Math](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.14830)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.14830](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14830)

**Authors**: Arindam Mitra, Hamed Khanpour, Corby Rosset, Ahmed Awadallah

**Published**: 2024-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

Mathematical word problem-solving has long been recognized as a complex task
for small language models (SLMs). A recent study hypothesized that the smallest
model size, needed to achieve over 80% accuracy on the GSM8K benchmark, is 34
billion parameters. To reach this level of performance with smaller models,
researcher often train SLMs to generate Python code or use tools to help avoid
calculation errors. Additionally, they employ ensembling, where outputs of up
to 100 model runs are combined to arrive at a more accurate result. Result
selection is done using consensus, majority vote or a separate a verifier model
used in conjunction with the SLM. Ensembling provides a substantial boost in
accuracy but at a significant cost increase with multiple calls to the model
(e.g., Phi-GSM uses top-48 to boost the performance from 68.2 to 81.5).
  In this work, we present Orca-Math, a 7-billion-parameter SLM based on the
Mistral-7B, which achieves 86.81% on GSM8k without the need for multiple model
calls or the use of verifiers, code execution or any other external tools. Our
approach has the following key elements: (1) A high quality synthetic dataset
of 200K math problems created using a multi-agent setup where agents
collaborate to create the data, (2) An iterative learning techniques that
enables the SLM to practice solving problems, receive feedback on its solutions
and learn from preference pairs incorporating the SLM solutions and the
feedback. When trained with Supervised Fine-Tuning alone, Orca-Math achieves
81.50% on GSM8k pass@1 metric. With iterative preference learning, Orca-Math
achieves 86.81% pass@1. Orca-Math surpasses the performance of significantly
larger models such as LLAMA-2-70B, WizardMath-70B, Gemini-Pro, ChatGPT-3.5. It
also significantly outperforms other smaller models while using much smaller
data (hundreds of thousands vs. millions of problems).

---

## 2. [Gen4Gen: Generative Data Pipeline for Generative Multi-Concept
  Composition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.15504)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.15504](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15504)

**Authors**: Chun-Hsiao Yeh, Ta-Ying Cheng, He-Yen Hsieh, Chuan-En Lin, Yi Ma, Andrew Markham, Niki Trigoni, H. T. Kung, Yubei Chen

**Published**: 2024-02-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/louisYen/Gen4Gen) | [Project Page](https://danielchyeh.github.io/Gen4Gen/)

### Abstract

Recent text-to-image diffusion models are able to learn and synthesize images
containing novel, personalized concepts (e.g., their own pets or specific
items) with just a few examples for training. This paper tackles two
interconnected issues within this realm of personalizing text-to-image
diffusion models. First, current personalization techniques fail to reliably
extend to multiple concepts -- we hypothesize this to be due to the mismatch
between complex scenes and simple text descriptions in the pre-training dataset
(e.g., LAION). Second, given an image containing multiple personalized
concepts, there lacks a holistic metric that evaluates performance on not just
the degree of resemblance of personalized concepts, but also whether all
concepts are present in the image and whether the image accurately reflects the
overall text description. To address these issues, we introduce Gen4Gen, a
semi-automated dataset creation pipeline utilizing generative models to combine
personalized concepts into complex compositions along with text-descriptions.
Using this, we create a dataset called MyCanvas, that can be used to benchmark
the task of multi-concept personalization. In addition, we design a
comprehensive metric comprising two scores (CP-CLIP and TI-CLIP) for better
quantifying the performance of multi-concept, personalized text-to-image
diffusion methods. We provide a simple baseline built on top of Custom
Diffusion with empirical prompting strategies for future researchers to
evaluate on MyCanvas. We show that by improving data quality and prompting
strategies, we can significantly increase multi-concept personalized image
generation quality, without requiring any modifications to model architecture
or training algorithms.

---

## 3. [CLoVe: Encoding Compositional Language in Contrastive Vision-Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.15021)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.15021](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15021)

**Authors**: Santiago Castro, Amir Ziai, Avneesh Saluja, Zhuoning Yuan, Rada Mihalcea

**Published**: 2024-02-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/netflix/clove)

### Abstract

Recent years have witnessed a significant increase in the performance of
Vision and Language tasks. Foundational Vision-Language Models (VLMs), such as
CLIP, have been leveraged in multiple settings and demonstrated remarkable
performance across several tasks. Such models excel at object-centric
recognition yet learn text representations that seem invariant to word order,
failing to compose known concepts in novel ways. However, no evidence exists
that any VLM, including large-scale single-stream models such as GPT-4V,
identifies compositions successfully. In this paper, we introduce a framework
to significantly improve the ability of existing models to encode compositional
language, with over 10% absolute improvement on compositionality benchmarks,
while maintaining or improving the performance on standard object-recognition
and retrieval benchmarks. Our code and pre-trained models are publicly
available at https://github.com/netflix/clove.

---
