# Daily Papers - 2024-02-12

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-02-12)

Total papers: 13

---

## 1. [Aya Dataset: An Open-Access Collection for Multilingual Instruction
  Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06619)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06619](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06619)

**Authors**: Shivalika Singh, Freddie Vargus, Daniel Dsouza, Börje F. Karlsson, Abinaya Mahendiran, Wei-Yin Ko, Herumb Shandilya, Jay Patel, Deividas Mataciunas, Laura OMahony, Mike Zhang, Ramith Hettiarachchi, Joseph Wilson, Marina Machado, Luisa Souza Moura, Dominik Krzemiński, Hakimeh Fadaei, Irem Ergün, Ifeoma Okoh, Aisha Alaagib, Oshan Mudannayake, Zaid Alyafeai, Vu Minh Chien, Sebastian Ruder, Surya Guthikonda, Emad A. Alghamdi, Sebastian Gehrmann, Niklas Muennighoff, Max Bartolo, Julia Kreutzer, Ahmet Üstün, Marzieh Fadaee, Sara Hooker

**Published**: 2024-02-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 57

### Abstract

Datasets are foundational to many breakthroughs in modern artificial
intelligence. Many recent achievements in the space of natural language
processing (NLP) can be attributed to the finetuning of pre-trained models on a
diverse set of tasks that enables a large language model (LLM) to respond to
instructions. Instruction fine-tuning (IFT) requires specifically constructed
and annotated datasets. However, existing datasets are almost all in the
English language. In this work, our primary goal is to bridge the language gap
by building a human-curated instruction-following dataset spanning 65
languages. We worked with fluent speakers of languages from around the world to
collect natural instances of instructions and completions. Furthermore, we
create the most extensive multilingual collection to date, comprising 513
million instances through templating and translating existing datasets across
114 languages. In total, we contribute four key resources: we develop and
open-source the Aya Annotation Platform, the Aya Dataset, the Aya Collection,
and the Aya Evaluation Suite. The Aya initiative also serves as a valuable case
study in participatory research, involving collaborators from 119 countries. We
see this as a valuable framework for future research collaborations that aim to
bridge gaps in resources.

---

## 2. [InternLM-Math: Open Math Large Language Models Toward Verifiable
  Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06332)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06332](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06332)

**Authors**: Huaiyuan Ying, Shuo Zhang, Linyang Li, Zhejian Zhou, Yunfan Shao, Zhaoye Fei, Yichuan Ma, Jiawei Hong, Kuikun Liu, Ziyi Wang, Yudong Wang, Zijian Wu, Shuaibin Li, Fengzhe Zhou, Hongwei Liu, Songyang Zhang, Wenwei Zhang, Hang Yan, Xipeng Qiu, Jiayu Wang, Kai Chen, Dahua Lin

**Published**: 2024-02-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/internlm/internlm-math)

### Abstract

The math abilities of large language models can represent their abstract
reasoning ability. In this paper, we introduce and open-source our math
reasoning LLMs InternLM-Math which is continue pre-trained from InternLM2. We
unify chain-of-thought reasoning, reward modeling, formal reasoning, data
augmentation, and code interpreter in a unified seq2seq format and supervise
our model to be a versatile math reasoner, verifier, prover, and augmenter.
These abilities can be used to develop the next math LLMs or self-iteration.
InternLM-Math obtains open-sourced state-of-the-art performance under the
setting of in-context learning, supervised fine-tuning, and code-assisted
reasoning in various informal and formal benchmarks including GSM8K, MATH,
Hungary math exam, MathBench-ZH, and MiniF2F. Our pre-trained model achieves
30.3 on the MiniF2F test set without fine-tuning. We further explore how to use
LEAN to solve math problems and study its performance under the setting of
multi-task learning which shows the possibility of using LEAN as a unified
platform for solving and proving in math. Our models, codes, and data are
released at https://github.com/InternLM/InternLM-Math.

---

## 3. [HeadStudio: Text to Animatable Head Avatars with 3D Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06149)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06149](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06149)

**Authors**: Zhenglin Zhou, Fan Ma, Hehe Fan, Yi Yang

**Published**: 2024-02-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Creating digital avatars from textual prompts has long been a desirable yet
challenging task. Despite the promising outcomes obtained through 2D diffusion
priors in recent works, current methods face challenges in achieving
high-quality and animated avatars effectively. In this paper, we present
HeadStudio, a novel framework that utilizes 3D Gaussian splatting to
generate realistic and animated avatars from text prompts. Our method drives 3D
Gaussians semantically to create a flexible and achievable appearance through
the intermediate FLAME representation. Specifically, we incorporate the FLAME
into both 3D representation and score distillation: 1) FLAME-based 3D Gaussian
splatting, driving 3D Gaussian points by rigging each point to a FLAME mesh. 2)
FLAME-based score distillation sampling, utilizing FLAME-based fine-grained
control signal to guide score distillation from the text prompt. Extensive
experiments demonstrate the efficacy of HeadStudio in generating animatable
avatars from textual prompts, exhibiting visually appealing appearances. The
avatars are capable of rendering high-quality real-time (geq 40 fps) novel
views at a resolution of 1024. They can be smoothly controlled by real-world
speech and video. We hope that HeadStudio can advance digital avatar creation
and that the present method can widely be applied across various domains.

---

## 4. [ViGoR: Improving Visual Grounding of Large Vision Language Models with
  Fine-Grained Reward Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06118)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06118](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06118)

**Authors**: Siming Yan, Min Bai, Weifeng Chen, Xiong Zhou, Qixing Huang, Li Erran Li

**Published**: 2024-02-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/amazon-science/vigor)

### Abstract

By combining natural language understanding and the generation capabilities
and breadth of knowledge of large language models with image perception, recent
large vision language models (LVLMs) have shown unprecedented reasoning
capabilities in the real world. However, the generated text often suffers from
inaccurate grounding in the visual input, resulting in errors such as
hallucinating nonexistent scene elements, missing significant parts of the
scene, and inferring incorrect attributes and relationships between objects. To
address these issues, we introduce a novel framework, ViGoR (Visual Grounding
Through Fine-Grained Reward Modeling) that utilizes fine-grained reward
modeling to significantly enhance the visual grounding of LVLMs over
pre-trained baselines. This improvement is efficiently achieved using much
cheaper human evaluations instead of full supervisions, as well as automated
methods. We show the effectiveness of our approach through numerous metrics on
several benchmarks. Additionally, we construct a comprehensive and challenging
dataset specifically designed to validate the visual grounding capabilities of
LVLMs. Finally, we plan to release our human annotation comprising
approximately 16,000 images and generated text pairs with fine-grained
evaluations to contribute to related research in the community.

---

## 5. [MusicMagus: Zero-Shot Text-to-Music Editing via Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06178)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06178](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06178)

**Authors**: Yixiao Zhang, Yukara Ikemiya, Gus Xia, Naoki Murata, Marco Martínez, Wei-Hsiang Liao, Yuki Mitsufuji, Simon Dixon

**Published**: 2024-02-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ldzhangyx/MusicMagus)

### Abstract

Recent advances in text-to-music generation models have opened new avenues in
musical creativity. However, music generation usually involves iterative
refinements, and how to edit the generated music remains a significant
challenge. This paper introduces a novel approach to the editing of music
generated by such models, enabling the modification of specific attributes,
such as genre, mood and instrument, while maintaining other aspects unchanged.
Our method transforms text editing to latent space manipulation while
adding an extra constraint to enforce consistency. It seamlessly integrates
with existing pretrained text-to-music diffusion models without requiring
additional training. Experimental results demonstrate superior performance over
both zero-shot and certain supervised baselines in style and timbre transfer
evaluations. Additionally, we showcase the practical applicability of our
approach in real-world music editing scenarios.

---

## 6. [Model Editing with Canonical Examples](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06155)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06155](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06155)

**Authors**: John Hewitt, Sarah Chen, Lanruo Lora Xie, Edward Adams, Percy Liang, Christopher D. Manning

**Published**: 2024-02-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/john-hewitt/model-editing-canonical-examples)

### Abstract

We introduce model editing with canonical examples, a setting in which (1) a
single learning example is provided per desired behavior, (2) evaluation is
performed exclusively out-of-distribution, and (3) deviation from an initial
model is strictly limited. A canonical example is a simple instance of good
behavior, e.g., The capital of Mauritius is Port Louis) or bad behavior, e.g.,
An aspect of researchers is coldhearted). The evaluation set contains more
complex examples of each behavior (like a paragraph in which the capital of
Mauritius is called for.) We create three datasets and modify three more for
model editing with canonical examples, covering knowledge-intensive
improvements, social bias mitigation, and syntactic edge cases. In our
experiments on Pythia language models, we find that LoRA outperforms full
finetuning and MEMIT. We then turn to the Backpack language model architecture
because it is intended to enable targeted improvement. The Backpack defines a
large bank of sense vectors--a decomposition of the different uses of each
word--which are weighted and summed to form the output logits of the model. We
propose sense finetuning, which selects and finetunes a few (approx 10)
sense vectors for each canonical example, and find that it outperforms other
finetuning methods, e.g., 4.8% improvement vs 0.3%. Finally, we improve
GPT-J-6B by an inference-time ensemble with just the changes from sense
finetuning of a 35x smaller Backpack, in one setting outperforming editing
GPT-J itself (4.1% vs 1.0%).

---

## 7. [Keyframer: Empowering Animation Design using Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06071)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06071](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06071)

**Authors**: Tiffany Tseng, Ruijia Cheng, Jeffrey Nichols

**Published**: 2024-02-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have the potential to impact a wide range of
creative domains, but the application of LLMs to animation is underexplored and
presents novel challenges such as how users might effectively describe motion
in natural language. In this paper, we present Keyframer, a design tool for
animating static images (SVGs) with natural language. Informed by interviews
with professional animation designers and engineers, Keyframer supports
exploration and refinement of animations through the combination of prompting
and direct editing of generated output. The system also enables users to
request design variants, supporting comparison and ideation. Through a user
study with 13 participants, we contribute a characterization of user prompting
strategies, including a taxonomy of semantic prompt types for describing motion
and a 'decomposed' prompting style where users continually adapt their goals in
response to generated output.We share how direct editing along with prompting
enables iteration beyond one-shot prompting interfaces common in generative
tools today. Through this work, we propose how LLMs might empower a range of
audiences to engage with animation creation.

---

## 8. [Suppressing Pink Elephants with Direct Principle Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07896)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07896](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07896)

**Authors**: Louis Castricato, Nathan Lile, Suraj Anand, Hailey Schoelkopf, Siddharth Verma, Stella Biderman

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Existing methods for controlling language models, such as RLHF and
Constitutional AI, involve determining which LLM behaviors are desirable and
training them into a language model. However, in many cases, it is desirable
for LLMs to be controllable at inference time, so that they can be
used in multiple contexts with diverse needs. We illustrate this with the
Pink Elephant Problem: instructing an LLM to avoid discussing a
certain entity (a ``Pink Elephant''), and instead discuss a preferred entity
(``Grey Elephant''). We apply a novel simplification of Constitutional AI,
Direct Principle Feedback, which skips the ranking of responses and
uses DPO directly on critiques and revisions. Our results show that after DPF
fine-tuning on our synthetic Pink Elephants dataset, our 13B fine-tuned LLaMA 2
model significantly outperforms Llama-2-13B-Chat and a prompted baseline, and
performs as well as GPT-4 in on our curated test set assessing the Pink
Elephant Problem.

---

## 9. [Premier-TACO: Pretraining Multitask Representation via Temporal
  Action-Driven Contrastive Loss](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06187)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06187](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06187)

**Authors**: Ruijie Zheng, Yongyuan Liang, Xiyao Wang, Shuang Ma, Hal Daumé III, Huazhe Xu, John Langford, Praveen Palanisamy, Kalyan Shankar Basu, Furong Huang

**Published**: 2024-02-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/PremierTACO/premier-taco)

### Abstract

We present Premier-TACO, a multitask feature representation learning approach
designed to improve few-shot policy learning efficiency in sequential
decision-making tasks. Premier-TACO leverages a subset of multitask offline
datasets for pretraining a general feature representation, which captures
critical environmental dynamics and is fine-tuned using minimal expert
demonstrations. It advances the temporal action contrastive learning (TACO)
objective, known for state-of-the-art results in visual control tasks, by
incorporating a novel negative example sampling strategy. This strategy is
crucial in significantly boosting TACO's computational efficiency, making
large-scale multitask offline pretraining feasible. Our extensive empirical
evaluation in a diverse set of continuous control benchmarks including Deepmind
Control Suite, MetaWorld, and LIBERO demonstrate Premier-TACO's effectiveness
in pretraining visual representations, significantly enhancing few-shot
imitation learning of novel tasks. Our code, pretraining data, as well as
pretrained model checkpoints will be released at
https://github.com/PremierTACO/premier-taco.

---

## 10. [Animated Stickers: Bringing Stickers to Life with Video Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06088)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06088](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06088)

**Authors**: David Yan, Winnie Zhang, Luxin Zhang, Anmol Kalia, Dingkang Wang, Ankit Ramchandani, Miao Liu, Albert Pumarola, Edgar Schoenfeld, Elliot Blanchard, Krishna Narni, Yaqiao Luo, Lawrence Chen, Guan Pang, Ali Thabet, Peter Vajda, Amy Bearman, Licheng Yu

**Published**: 2024-02-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

We introduce animated stickers, a video diffusion model which generates an
animation conditioned on a text prompt and static sticker image. Our model is
built on top of the state-of-the-art Emu text-to-image model, with the addition
of temporal layers to model motion. Due to the domain gap, i.e. differences in
visual and motion style, a model which performed well on generating natural
videos can no longer generate vivid videos when applied to stickers. To bridge
this gap, we employ a two-stage finetuning pipeline: first with weakly
in-domain data, followed by human-in-the-loop (HITL) strategy which we term
ensemble-of-teachers. It distills the best qualities of multiple teachers into
a smaller student model. We show that this strategy allows us to specifically
target improvements to motion quality while maintaining the style from the
static image. With inference optimizations, our model is able to generate an
eight-frame video with high-quality, interesting, and relevant motion in under
one second.

---

## 11. [SubGen: Token Generation in Sublinear Time and Memory](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06082)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06082](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06082)

**Authors**: Amir Zandieh, Insu Han, Vahab Mirrokni, Amin Karbasi

**Published**: 2024-02-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Despite the significant success of large language models (LLMs), their
extensive memory requirements pose challenges for deploying them in
long-context token generation. The substantial memory footprint of LLM decoders
arises from the necessity to store all previous tokens in the attention module,
a requirement imposed by key-value (KV) caching. In this work, our focus is on
developing an efficient compression technique for the KV cache. Empirical
evidence indicates a significant clustering tendency within key embeddings in
the attention module. Building on this key insight, we have devised a novel
caching method with sublinear complexity, employing online clustering on key
tokens and online ell_2 sampling on values. The result is a provably
accurate and efficient attention decoding algorithm, termed SubGen. Not only
does this algorithm ensure a sublinear memory footprint and sublinear time
complexity, but we also establish a tight error bound for our approach.
Empirical evaluations on long-context question-answering tasks demonstrate that
SubGen significantly outperforms existing and state-of-the-art KV cache
compression methods in terms of performance and efficiency.

---

## 12. [DeAL: Decoding-time Alignment for Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06147)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06147](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06147)

**Authors**: James Y. Huang, Sailik Sengupta, Daniele Bonadiman, Yi-an Lai, Arshit Gupta, Nikolaos Pappas, Saab Mansour, Katrin Kirchoff, Dan Roth

**Published**: 2024-02-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sailik1991/deal)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) are nowadays expected to generate content
aligned with human preferences. Current work focuses on alignment at model
training time, through techniques such as Reinforcement Learning with Human
Feedback (RLHF). However, it is unclear if such methods are an effective choice
to teach alignment objectives to the model. First, the inability to incorporate
multiple, custom rewards and reliance on a model developer's view of universal
and static principles are key limitations. Second, the residual gaps in model
training and the reliability of such approaches are also questionable (e.g.
susceptibility to jail-breaking even after safety training). To address these,
we propose DeAL, a framework that allows the user to customize reward functions
and enables Decoding-time Alignment of LLMs (DeAL). At its core, we view
decoding as a heuristic-guided search process and facilitate the use of a wide
variety of alignment objectives. Our experiments with programmatic constraints
such as keyword and length constraints (studied widely in the pre-LLM era) and
abstract objectives such as harmlessness and helpfulness (proposed in the
post-LLM era) show that we can DeAL with fine-grained trade-offs, improve
adherence to alignment objectives, and address residual gaps in LLMs. Lastly,
while DeAL can be effectively paired with RLHF and prompting techniques, its
generality makes decoding slower, an optimization we leave for future work.

---

## 13. [Real-World Fluid Directed Rigid Body Control via Deep Reinforcement
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06102)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06102](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06102)

**Authors**: Mohak Bhardwaj, Thomas Lampe, Michael Neunert, Francesco Romano, Abbas Abdolmaleki, Arunkumar Byravan, Markus Wulfmeier, Martin Riedmiller, Jonas Buchli

**Published**: 2024-02-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Recent advances in real-world applications of reinforcement learning (RL)
have relied on the ability to accurately simulate systems at scale. However,
domains such as fluid dynamical systems exhibit complex dynamic phenomena that
are hard to simulate at high integration rates, limiting the direct application
of modern deep RL algorithms to often expensive or safety critical hardware. In
this work, we introduce "Box o Flows", a novel benchtop experimental control
system for systematically evaluating RL algorithms in dynamic real-world
scenarios. We describe the key components of the Box o Flows, and through a
series of experiments demonstrate how state-of-the-art model-free RL algorithms
can synthesize a variety of complex behaviors via simple reward specifications.
Furthermore, we explore the role of offline RL in data-efficient hypothesis
testing by reusing past experiences. We believe that the insights gained from
this preliminary study and the availability of systems like the Box o Flows
support the way forward for developing systematic RL algorithms that can be
generally applied to complex, dynamical systems. Supplementary material and
videos of experiments are available at
https://sites.google.com/view/box-o-flows/home.

---
