# Daily Papers - 2024-02-16

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-02-16)

Total papers: 13

---

## 1. [Chain-of-Thought Reasoning Without Prompting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10200)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10200](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10200)

**Authors**: Xuezhi Wang, Denny Zhou

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 109

### Abstract

In enhancing the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs),
prior research primarily focuses on specific prompting techniques such as
few-shot or zero-shot chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting. These methods, while
effective, often involve manually intensive prompt engineering. Our study takes
a novel approach by asking: Can LLMs reason effectively without prompting? Our
findings reveal that, intriguingly, CoT reasoning paths can be elicited from
pre-trained LLMs by simply altering the decoding process. Rather than
conventional greedy decoding, we investigate the top-k alternative tokens,
uncovering that CoT paths are frequently inherent in these sequences. This
approach not only bypasses the confounders of prompting but also allows us to
assess the LLMs' intrinsic reasoning abilities. Moreover, we observe
that the presence of a CoT in the decoding path correlates with a higher
confidence in the model's decoded answer. This confidence metric effectively
differentiates between CoT and non-CoT paths. Extensive empirical studies on
various reasoning benchmarks show that the proposed CoT-decoding substantially
outperforms the standard greedy decoding.

---

## 2. [Generative Representational Instruction Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.09906)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.09906](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09906)

**Authors**: Niklas Muennighoff, Hongjin Su, Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Furu Wei, Tao Yu, Amanpreet Singh, Douwe Kiela

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 54

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/contextualai/gritlm)

### Abstract

All text-based language problems can be reduced to either generation or
embedding. Current models only perform well at one or the other. We introduce
generative representational instruction tuning (GRIT) whereby a large language
model is trained to handle both generative and embedding tasks by
distinguishing between them through instructions. Compared to other open
models, our resulting GritLM 7B sets a new state of the art on the Massive Text
Embedding Benchmark (MTEB) and outperforms all models up to its size on a range
of generative tasks. By scaling up further, GritLM 8x7B outperforms all open
generative language models that we tried while still being among the best
embedding models. Notably, we find that GRIT matches training on only
generative or embedding data, thus we can unify both at no performance loss.
Among other benefits, the unification via GRIT speeds up Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG) by > 60% for long documents, by no longer requiring separate
retrieval and generation models. Models, code, etc. are freely available at
https://github.com/ContextualAI/gritlm.

---

## 3. [How to Train Data-Efficient LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.09668)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.09668](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09668)

**Authors**: Noveen Sachdeva, Benjamin Coleman, Wang-Cheng Kang, Jianmo Ni, Lichan Hong, Ed H. Chi, James Caverlee, Julian McAuley, Derek Zhiyuan Cheng

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 43

### Abstract

The training of large language models (LLMs) is expensive. In this paper, we
study data-efficient approaches for pre-training LLMs, i.e., techniques that
aim to optimize the Pareto frontier of model quality and training resource/data
consumption. We seek to understand the tradeoffs associated with data selection
routines based on (i) expensive-to-compute data-quality estimates, and (ii)
maximization of coverage and diversity-based measures in the feature space. Our
first technique, Ask-LLM, leverages the zero-shot reasoning capabilities of
instruction-tuned LLMs to directly assess the quality of a training example. To
target coverage, we propose Density sampling, which models the data
distribution to select a diverse sample. In our comparison of 19 samplers,
involving hundreds of evaluation tasks and pre-training runs, we find that
Ask-LLM and Density are the best methods in their respective categories.
Coverage sampling can recover the performance of the full data, while models
trained on Ask-LLM data consistently outperform full-data training -- even when
we reject 90% of the original dataset, while converging up to 70% faster.

---

## 4. [OpenMathInstruct-1: A 1.8 Million Math Instruction Tuning Dataset](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10176)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10176](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10176)

**Authors**: Shubham Toshniwal, Ivan Moshkov, Sean Narenthiran, Daria Gitman, Fei Jia, Igor Gitman

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kipok/nemo-skills)

### Abstract

Recent work has shown the immense potential of synthetically generated
datasets for training large language models (LLMs), especially for acquiring
targeted skills. Current large-scale math instruction tuning datasets such as
MetaMathQA (Yu et al., 2024) and MAmmoTH (Yue et al., 2024) are constructed
using outputs from closed-source LLMs with commercially restrictive licenses. A
key reason limiting the use of open-source LLMs in these data generation
pipelines has been the wide gap between the mathematical skills of the best
closed-source LLMs, such as GPT-4, and the best open-source LLMs. Building on
the recent progress in open-source LLMs, our proposed prompting novelty, and
some brute-force scaling, we construct OpenMathInstruct-1, a math instruction
tuning dataset with 1.8M problem-solution pairs. The dataset is constructed by
synthesizing code-interpreter solutions for GSM8K and MATH, two popular math
reasoning benchmarks, using the recently released and permissively licensed
Mixtral model. Our best model, OpenMath-CodeLlama-70B, trained on a subset of
OpenMathInstruct-1, achieves a score of 84.6% on GSM8K and 50.7% on MATH, which
is competitive with the best gpt-distilled models. We release our code, models,
and the OpenMathInstruct-1 dataset under a commercially permissive license.

---

## 5. [A Human-Inspired Reading Agent with Gist Memory of Very Long Contexts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.09727)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.09727](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09727)

**Authors**: Kuang-Huei Lee, Xinyun Chen, Hiroki Furuta, John Canny, Ian Fischer

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 38

### Abstract

Current Large Language Models (LLMs) are not only limited to some maximum
context length, but also are not able to robustly consume long inputs. To
address these limitations, we propose ReadAgent, an LLM agent system that
increases effective context length up to 20x in our experiments. Inspired by
how humans interactively read long documents, we implement ReadAgent as a
simple prompting system that uses the advanced language capabilities of LLMs to
(1) decide what content to store together in a memory episode, (2) compress
those memory episodes into short episodic memories called gist memories, and
(3) take actions to look up passages in the original text if ReadAgent needs to
remind itself of relevant details to complete a task. We evaluate ReadAgent
against baselines using retrieval methods, using the original long contexts,
and using the gist memories. These evaluations are performed on three
long-document reading comprehension tasks: QuALITY, NarrativeQA, and QMSum.
ReadAgent outperforms the baselines on all three tasks while extending the
effective context window by 3-20x.

---

## 6. [Self-Play Fine-Tuning of Diffusion Models for Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10210)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10210](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10210)

**Authors**: Huizhuo Yuan, Zixiang Chen, Kaixuan Ji, Quanquan Gu

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 35

### Abstract

Fine-tuning Diffusion Models remains an underexplored frontier in generative
artificial intelligence (GenAI), especially when compared with the remarkable
progress made in fine-tuning Large Language Models (LLMs). While cutting-edge
diffusion models such as Stable Diffusion (SD) and SDXL rely on supervised
fine-tuning, their performance inevitably plateaus after seeing a certain
volume of data. Recently, reinforcement learning (RL) has been employed to
fine-tune diffusion models with human preference data, but it requires at least
two images ("winner" and "loser" images) for each text prompt. In this paper,
we introduce an innovative technique called self-play fine-tuning for diffusion
models (SPIN-Diffusion), where the diffusion model engages in competition with
its earlier versions, facilitating an iterative self-improvement process. Our
approach offers an alternative to conventional supervised fine-tuning and RL
strategies, significantly improving both model performance and alignment. Our
experiments on the Pick-a-Pic dataset reveal that SPIN-Diffusion outperforms
the existing supervised fine-tuning method in aspects of human preference
alignment and visual appeal right from its first iteration. By the second
iteration, it exceeds the performance of RLHF-based methods across all metrics,
achieving these results with less data.

---

## 7. [Data Engineering for Scaling Language Models to 128K Context](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10171)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10171](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10171)

**Authors**: Yao Fu, Rameswar Panda, Xinyao Niu, Xiang Yue, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Yoon Kim, Hao Peng

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/franxyao/long-context-data-engineering)

### Abstract

We study the continual pretraining recipe for scaling language models'
context lengths to 128K, with a focus on data engineering. We hypothesize that
long context modeling, in particular the ability to utilize information
at arbitrary input locations, is a capability that is mostly already acquired
through large-scale pretraining, and that this capability can be readily
extended to contexts substantially longer than seen during training~(e.g., 4K
to 128K) through lightweight continual pretraining on appropriate data mixture.
We investigate the quantity and quality of the data for
continual pretraining: (1) for quantity, we show that 500 million to 5 billion
tokens are enough to enable the model to retrieve information anywhere within
the 128K context; (2) for quality, our results equally emphasize domain
balance and length upsampling. Concretely, we find that naively
upsampling longer data on certain domains like books, a common practice of
existing work, gives suboptimal performance, and that a balanced domain mixture
is important. We demonstrate that continual pretraining of the full model on
1B-5B tokens of such data is an effective and affordable strategy for scaling
the context length of language models to 128K. Our recipe outperforms strong
open-source long-context models and closes the gap to frontier models like
GPT-4 128K.

---

## 8. [BitDelta: Your Fine-Tune May Only Be Worth One Bit](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10193)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10193](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10193)

**Authors**: James Liu, Guangxuan Xiao, Kai Li, Jason D. Lee, Song Han, Tri Dao, Tianle Cai

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/FasterDecoding/BitDelta)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) are typically trained in two phases:
pre-training on large internet-scale datasets, and fine-tuning for downstream
tasks. Given the higher computational demand of pre-training, it's intuitive to
assume that fine-tuning adds less new information to the model, and is thus
more compressible. We explore this assumption by decomposing the weights of
fine-tuned models into their pre-trained components and an additional delta. We
introduce a simple method, BitDelta, which successfully quantizes this delta
down to 1 bit without compromising performance. This interesting finding not
only highlights the potential redundancy of information added during
fine-tuning, but also has significant implications for the multi-tenant serving
and multi-tenant storage of fine-tuned models. By enabling the use of a single
high-precision base model accompanied by multiple 1-bit deltas, BitDelta
dramatically reduces GPU memory requirements by more than 10x, which can also
be translated to enhanced generation latency in multi-tenant settings. We
validate BitDelta through experiments across Llama-2 and Mistral model
families, and on models up to 70B parameters, showcasing minimal performance
degradation over all tested settings.

---

## 9. [Zero-Shot Unsupervised and Text-Based Audio Editing Using DDPM Inversion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10009)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10009](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10009)

**Authors**: Hila Manor, Tomer Michaeli

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jinhualiang/tage)

### Abstract

Editing signals using large pre-trained models, in a zero-shot manner, has
recently seen rapid advancements in the image domain. However, this wave has
yet to reach the audio domain. In this paper, we explore two zero-shot editing
techniques for audio signals, which use DDPM inversion on pre-trained diffusion
models. The first, adopted from the image domain, allows text-based editing.
The second, is a novel approach for discovering semantically meaningful editing
directions without supervision. When applied to music signals, this method
exposes a range of musically interesting modifications, from controlling the
participation of specific instruments to improvisations on the melody. Samples
can be found on our examples page in https://hilamanor.github.io/AudioEditing/
and code can be found in https://github.com/hilamanor/AudioEditing/ .

---

## 10. [GES: Generalized Exponential Splatting for Efficient Radiance Field
  Rendering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10128)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10128](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10128)

**Authors**: Abdullah Hamdi, Luke Melas-Kyriazi, Guocheng Qian, Jinjie Mai, Ruoshi Liu, Carl Vondrick, Bernard Ghanem, Andrea Vedaldi

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ajhamdi/ges-splatting)

### Abstract

Advancements in 3D Gaussian Splatting have significantly accelerated 3D
reconstruction and generation. However, it may require a large number of
Gaussians, which creates a substantial memory footprint. This paper introduces
GES (Generalized Exponential Splatting), a novel representation that employs
Generalized Exponential Function (GEF) to model 3D scenes, requiring far fewer
particles to represent a scene and thus significantly outperforming Gaussian
Splatting methods in efficiency with a plug-and-play replacement ability for
Gaussian-based utilities. GES is validated theoretically and empirically in
both principled 1D setup and realistic 3D scenes.
  It is shown to represent signals with sharp edges more accurately, which are
typically challenging for Gaussians due to their inherent low-pass
characteristics. Our empirical analysis demonstrates that GEF outperforms
Gaussians in fitting natural-occurring signals (e.g. squares, triangles, and
parabolic signals), thereby reducing the need for extensive splitting
operations that increase the memory footprint of Gaussian Splatting. With the
aid of a frequency-modulated loss, GES achieves competitive performance in
novel-view synthesis benchmarks while requiring less than half the memory
storage of Gaussian Splatting and increasing the rendering speed by up to 39%.
The code is available on the project website https://abdullahamdi.com/ges .

---

## 11. [DreamMatcher: Appearance Matching Self-Attention for
  Semantically-Consistent Text-to-Image Personalization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.09812)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.09812](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09812)

**Authors**: Jisu Nam, Heesu Kim, DongJae Lee, Siyoon Jin, Seungryong Kim, Seunggyu Chang

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/KU-CVLAB/DreamMatcher)

### Abstract

The objective of text-to-image (T2I) personalization is to customize a
diffusion model to a user-provided reference concept, generating diverse images
of the concept aligned with the target prompts. Conventional methods
representing the reference concepts using unique text embeddings often fail to
accurately mimic the appearance of the reference. To address this, one solution
may be explicitly conditioning the reference images into the target denoising
process, known as key-value replacement. However, prior works are constrained
to local editing since they disrupt the structure path of the pre-trained T2I
model. To overcome this, we propose a novel plug-in method, called
DreamMatcher, which reformulates T2I personalization as semantic matching.
Specifically, DreamMatcher replaces the target values with reference values
aligned by semantic matching, while leaving the structure path unchanged to
preserve the versatile capability of pre-trained T2I models for generating
diverse structures. We also introduce a semantic-consistent masking strategy to
isolate the personalized concept from irrelevant regions introduced by the
target prompts. Compatible with existing T2I models, DreamMatcher shows
significant improvements in complex scenarios. Intensive analyses demonstrate
the effectiveness of our approach.

---

## 12. [Hierarchical State Space Models for Continuous Sequence-to-Sequence
  Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10211)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10211](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10211)

**Authors**: Raunaq Bhirangi, Chenyu Wang, Venkatesh Pattabiraman, Carmel Majidi, Abhinav Gupta, Tess Hellebrekers, Lerrel Pinto

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/raunaqbhirangi/hiss)

### Abstract

Reasoning from sequences of raw sensory data is a ubiquitous problem across
fields ranging from medical devices to robotics. These problems often involve
using long sequences of raw sensor data (e.g. magnetometers, piezoresistors) to
predict sequences of desirable physical quantities (e.g. force, inertial
measurements). While classical approaches are powerful for locally-linear
prediction problems, they often fall short when using real-world sensors. These
sensors are typically non-linear, are affected by extraneous variables (e.g.
vibration), and exhibit data-dependent drift. For many problems, the prediction
task is exacerbated by small labeled datasets since obtaining ground-truth
labels requires expensive equipment. In this work, we present Hierarchical
State-Space Models (HiSS), a conceptually simple, new technique for continuous
sequential prediction. HiSS stacks structured state-space models on top of each
other to create a temporal hierarchy. Across six real-world sensor datasets,
from tactile-based state prediction to accelerometer-based inertial
measurement, HiSS outperforms state-of-the-art sequence models such as causal
Transformers, LSTMs, S4, and Mamba by at least 23% on MSE. Our experiments
further indicate that HiSS demonstrates efficient scaling to smaller datasets
and is compatible with existing data-filtering techniques. Code, datasets and
videos can be found on https://hiss-csp.github.io.

---

## 13. [Rolling Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.09470)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.09470](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09470)

**Authors**: David Ruhe, Jonathan Heek, Tim Salimans, Emiel Hoogeboom

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Diffusion models have recently been increasingly applied to temporal data
such as video, fluid mechanics simulations, or climate data. These methods
generally treat subsequent frames equally regarding the amount of noise in the
diffusion process. This paper explores Rolling Diffusion: a new approach that
uses a sliding window denoising process. It ensures that the diffusion process
progressively corrupts through time by assigning more noise to frames that
appear later in a sequence, reflecting greater uncertainty about the future as
the generation process unfolds. Empirically, we show that when the temporal
dynamics are complex, Rolling Diffusion is superior to standard diffusion. In
particular, this result is demonstrated in a video prediction task using the
Kinetics-600 video dataset and in a chaotic fluid dynamics forecasting
experiment.

---
