# Daily Papers - 2024-02-13

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-02-13)

Total papers: 15

---

## 1. [Aya Model: An Instruction Finetuned Open-Access Multilingual Language
  Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07827)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07827](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07827)

**Authors**: Ahmet Üstün, Viraat Aryabumi, Zheng-Xin Yong, Wei-Yin Ko, Daniel D'souza, Gbemileke Onilude, Neel Bhandari, Shivalika Singh, Hui-Lee Ooi, Amr Kayid, Freddie Vargus, Phil Blunsom, Shayne Longpre, Niklas Muennighoff, Marzieh Fadaee, Julia Kreutzer, Sara Hooker

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 48

### Abstract

Recent breakthroughs in large language models (LLMs) have centered around a
handful of data-rich languages. What does it take to broaden access to
breakthroughs beyond first-class citizen languages? Our work introduces Aya, a
massively multilingual generative language model that follows instructions in
101 languages of which over 50% are considered as lower-resourced. Aya
outperforms mT0 and BLOOMZ on the majority of tasks while covering double the
number of languages. We introduce extensive new evaluation suites that broaden
the state-of-art for multilingual eval across 99 languages -- including
discriminative and generative tasks, human evaluation, and simulated win rates
that cover both held-out tasks and in-distribution performance. Furthermore, we
conduct detailed investigations on the optimal finetuning mixture composition,
data pruning, as well as the toxicity, bias, and safety of our models. We
open-source our instruction datasets and our model at
https://hf.co/CohereForAI/aya-101

---

## 2. [OS-Copilot: Towards Generalist Computer Agents with Self-Improvement](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07456)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07456](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07456)

**Authors**: Zhiyong Wu, Chengcheng Han, Zichen Ding, Zhenmin Weng, Zhoumianze Liu, Shunyu Yao, Tao Yu, Lingpeng Kong

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OS-Copilot/FRIDAY)

### Abstract

Autonomous interaction with the computer has been a longstanding challenge
with great potential, and the recent proliferation of large language models
(LLMs) has markedly accelerated progress in building digital agents. However,
most of these agents are designed to interact with a narrow domain, such as a
specific software or website. This narrow focus constrains their applicability
for general computer tasks. To this end, we introduce OS-Copilot, a framework
to build generalist agents capable of interfacing with comprehensive elements
in an operating system (OS), including the web, code terminals, files,
multimedia, and various third-party applications. We use OS-Copilot to create
FRIDAY, a self-improving embodied agent for automating general computer tasks.
On GAIA, a general AI assistants benchmark, FRIDAY outperforms previous methods
by 35%, showcasing strong generalization to unseen applications via accumulated
skills from previous tasks. We also present numerical and quantitative evidence
that FRIDAY learns to control and self-improve on Excel and Powerpoint with
minimal supervision. Our OS-Copilot framework and empirical findings provide
infrastructure and insights for future research toward more capable and
general-purpose computer agents.

---

## 3. [ChemLLM: A Chemical Large Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06852)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06852](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06852)

**Authors**: Di Zhang, Wei Liu, Qian Tan, Jingdan Chen, Hang Yan, Yuliang Yan, Jiatong Li, Weiran Huang, Xiangyu Yue, Dongzhan Zhou, Shufei Zhang, Mao Su, Hansen Zhong, Yuqiang Li, Wanli Ouyang

**Published**: 2024-02-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/keyhsw/chemllm)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have made impressive progress in chemistry
applications, including molecular property prediction, molecular generation,
experimental protocol design, etc. However, the community lacks a
dialogue-based model specifically designed for chemistry. The challenge arises
from the fact that most chemical data and scientific knowledge are primarily
stored in structured databases, and the direct use of these structured data
compromises the model's ability to maintain coherent dialogue. To tackle this
issue, we develop a novel template-based instruction construction method that
transforms structured knowledge into plain dialogue, making it suitable for
language model training. By leveraging this approach, we develop ChemLLM, the
first large language model dedicated to chemistry, capable of performing
various tasks across chemical disciplines with smooth dialogue interaction.
ChemLLM beats GPT-3.5 on all three principal tasks in chemistry, i.e., name
conversion, molecular caption, and reaction prediction, and surpasses GPT-4 on
two of them. Remarkably, ChemLLM also shows exceptional adaptability to related
mathematical and physical tasks despite being trained mainly on
chemical-centric corpora. Furthermore, ChemLLM demonstrates proficiency in
specialized NLP tasks within chemistry, such as literature translation and
cheminformatic programming. ChemLLM opens up a new avenue for exploration
within chemical studies, while our method of integrating structured chemical
knowledge into dialogue systems sets a new frontier for developing LLMs across
various scientific fields. Codes, Datasets, and Model weights are publicly
accessible at hf.co/AI4Chem/ChemLLM-7B-Chat.

---

## 4. [Fiddler: CPU-GPU Orchestration for Fast Inference of Mixture-of-Experts
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07033)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07033](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07033)

**Authors**: Keisuke Kamahori, Yile Gu, Kan Zhu, Baris Kasikci

**Published**: 2024-02-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/efeslab/fiddler)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) based on Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architecture
are showing promising performance on various tasks. However, running them on
resource-constrained settings, where GPU memory resources are not abundant, is
challenging due to huge model sizes. Existing systems that offload model
weights to CPU memory suffer from the significant overhead of frequently moving
data between CPU and GPU. In this paper, we propose Fiddler, a
resource-efficient inference engine with CPU-GPU orchestration for MoE models.
The key idea of Fiddler is to use the computation ability of the CPU to
minimize the data movement between the CPU and GPU. Our evaluation shows that
Fiddler can run the uncompressed Mixtral-8x7B model, which exceeds 90GB in
parameters, to generate over 3 tokens per second on a single GPU with 24GB
memory, showing an order of magnitude improvement over existing methods. The
code of Fiddler is publicly available at
https://github.com/efeslab/fiddler

---

## 5. [PIVOT: Iterative Visual Prompting Elicits Actionable Knowledge for VLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07872)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07872](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07872)

**Authors**: Soroush Nasiriany, Fei Xia, Wenhao Yu, Ted Xiao, Jacky Liang, Ishita Dasgupta, Annie Xie, Danny Driess, Ayzaan Wahid, Zhuo Xu, Quan Vuong, Tingnan Zhang, Tsang-Wei Edward Lee, Kuang-Huei Lee, Peng Xu, Sean Kirmani, Yuke Zhu, Andy Zeng, Karol Hausman, Nicolas Heess, Chelsea Finn, Sergey Levine, Brian Ichter

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Vision language models (VLMs) have shown impressive capabilities across a
variety of tasks, from logical reasoning to visual understanding. This opens
the door to richer interaction with the world, for example robotic control.
However, VLMs produce only textual outputs, while robotic control and other
spatial tasks require outputting continuous coordinates, actions, or
trajectories. How can we enable VLMs to handle such settings without
fine-tuning on task-specific data?
  In this paper, we propose a novel visual prompting approach for VLMs that we
call Prompting with Iterative Visual Optimization (PIVOT), which casts tasks as
iterative visual question answering. In each iteration, the image is annotated
with a visual representation of proposals that the VLM can refer to (e.g.,
candidate robot actions, localizations, or trajectories). The VLM then selects
the best ones for the task. These proposals are iteratively refined, allowing
the VLM to eventually zero in on the best available answer. We investigate
PIVOT on real-world robotic navigation, real-world manipulation from images,
instruction following in simulation, and additional spatial inference tasks
such as localization. We find, perhaps surprisingly, that our approach enables
zero-shot control of robotic systems without any robot training data,
navigation in a variety of environments, and other capabilities. Although
current performance is far from perfect, our work highlights potentials and
limitations of this new regime and shows a promising approach for
Internet-Scale VLMs in robotic and spatial reasoning domains. Website:
pivot-prompt.github.io and HuggingFace:
https://huggingface.co/spaces/pivot-prompt/pivot-prompt-demo.

---

## 6. [AutoMathText: Autonomous Data Selection with Language Models for
  Mathematical Texts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07625)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07625](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07625)

**Organization**: math-ai

**Authors**: Yifan Zhang, Yifan Luo, Yang Yuan, Andrew Chi-Chih Yao

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yifanzhang-pro/AutoMathText) | [Project Page](https://github.com/yifanzhang-pro/AutoMathText)

### Abstract

To improve language models' proficiency in mathematical reasoning via
continual pretraining, we introduce a novel strategy that leverages base
language models for autonomous data selection. Departing from conventional
supervised fine-tuning or trained classifiers with human-annotated data, our
approach utilizes meta-prompted language models as zero-shot verifiers to
autonomously evaluate and select high-quality mathematical content, and we
release the curated open-source AutoMathText dataset encompassing over 200GB of
data. To demonstrate the efficacy of our method, we continuously pretrained a
7B-parameter Mistral language model on the AutoMathText dataset, achieving
substantial improvements in downstream performance on the MATH dataset with a
token amount reduced by orders of magnitude compared to previous continuous
pretraining works. Our method showcases a 2 times increase in pretraining token
efficiency compared to baselines, underscoring the potential of our approach in
enhancing models' mathematical reasoning capabilities. The AutoMathText dataset
is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/math-ai/AutoMathText. The code
is available at https://github.com/yifanzhang-pro/AutoMathText.

---

## 7. [Making Flow-Matching-Based Zero-Shot Text-to-Speech Laugh as You Like](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07383)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07383](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07383)

**Authors**: Naoyuki Kanda, Xiaofei Wang, Sefik Emre Eskimez, Manthan Thakker, Hemin Yang, Zirun Zhu, Min Tang, Canrun Li, Steven Tsai, Zhen Xiao, Yufei Xia, Jinzhu Li, Yanqing Liu, Sheng Zhao, Michael Zeng

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Laughter is one of the most expressive and natural aspects of human speech,
conveying emotions, social cues, and humor. However, most text-to-speech (TTS)
systems lack the ability to produce realistic and appropriate laughter sounds,
limiting their applications and user experience. While there have been prior
works to generate natural laughter, they fell short in terms of controlling the
timing and variety of the laughter to be generated. In this work, we propose
ELaTE, a zero-shot TTS that can generate natural laughing speech of any speaker
based on a short audio prompt with precise control of laughter timing and
expression. Specifically, ELaTE works on the audio prompt to mimic the voice
characteristic, the text prompt to indicate the contents of the generated
speech, and the input to control the laughter expression, which can be either
the start and end times of laughter, or the additional audio prompt that
contains laughter to be mimicked. We develop our model based on the foundation
of conditional flow-matching-based zero-shot TTS, and fine-tune it with
frame-level representation from a laughter detector as additional conditioning.
With a simple scheme to mix small-scale laughter-conditioned data with
large-scale pre-training data, we demonstrate that a pre-trained zero-shot TTS
model can be readily fine-tuned to generate natural laughter with precise
controllability, without losing any quality of the pre-trained zero-shot TTS
model. Through the evaluations, we show that ELaTE can generate laughing speech
with significantly higher quality and controllability compared to conventional
models. See https://aka.ms/elate/ for demo samples.

---

## 8. [Prismatic VLMs: Investigating the Design Space of Visually-Conditioned
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07865)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07865](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07865)

**Authors**: Siddharth Karamcheti, Suraj Nair, Ashwin Balakrishna, Percy Liang, Thomas Kollar, Dorsa Sadigh

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tri-ml/prismatic-vlms)

### Abstract

Visually-conditioned language models (VLMs) have seen growing adoption in
applications such as visual dialogue, scene understanding, and robotic task
planning; adoption that has fueled a wealth of new models such as LLaVa,
InstructBLIP, and PaLI-3. Despite the volume of new releases, key design
decisions around image preprocessing, architecture, and optimization are
under-explored, making it challenging to understand what factors account for
model performance - a challenge further complicated by the lack of objective,
consistent evaluations. To address these gaps, we first compile a suite of
standardized evaluations spanning visual question answering, object
localization from language, and targeted challenge sets that probe properties
such as hallucination; evaluations that provide calibrated, fine-grained
insight into a VLM's capabilities. Second, we rigorously investigate VLMs along
key design axes, including pretrained visual representations and quantifying
the tradeoffs of using base vs. instruct-tuned language models, amongst others.
We couple our analysis with three resource contributions: (1) a unified
framework for evaluating VLMs, (2) optimized, flexible code for VLM training,
and (3) checkpoints for all models, including a family of VLMs at the 7-13B
scale that strictly outperform InstructBLIP and LLaVa v1.5, the
state-of-the-art in open-source VLMs.

---

## 9. [A Tale of Tails: Model Collapse as a Change of Scaling Laws](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07043)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07043](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07043)

**Authors**: Elvis Dohmatob, Yunzhen Feng, Pu Yang, Francois Charton, Julia Kempe

**Published**: 2024-02-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

As AI model size grows, neural scaling laws have become a crucial tool to
predict the improvements of large models when increasing capacity and the size
of original (human or natural) training data. Yet, the widespread use of
popular models means that the ecosystem of online data and text will co-evolve
to progressively contain increased amounts of synthesized data. In this paper
we ask: How will the scaling laws change in the inevitable regime where
synthetic data makes its way into the training corpus? Will future models,
still improve, or be doomed to degenerate up to total (model) collapse? We
develop a theoretical framework of model collapse through the lens of scaling
laws. We discover a wide range of decay phenomena, analyzing loss of scaling,
shifted scaling with number of generations, the ''un-learning" of skills, and
grokking when mixing human and synthesized data. Our theory is validated by
large-scale experiments with a transformer on an arithmetic task and text
generation using the large language model Llama2.

---

## 10. [ODIN: Disentangled Reward Mitigates Hacking in RLHF](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07319)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07319](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07319)

**Authors**: Lichang Chen, Chen Zhu, Davit Soselia, Jiuhai Chen, Tianyi Zhou, Tom Goldstein, Heng Huang, Mohammad Shoeybi, Bryan Catanzaro

**Published**: 2024-02-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lichang-chen/odin)

### Abstract

In this work, we study the issue of reward hacking on the response length, a
challenge emerging in Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) on
LLMs. A well-formatted, verbose but less helpful response from the LLMs can
often deceive LLMs or even human evaluators to achieve high scores. The same
issue also holds for some reward models in RL. To address the challenges in
both training and evaluation, we establish a more reliable evaluation protocol
for comparing different training configurations, which inspects the trade-off
between LLM evaluation score and response length obtained by varying training
hyperparameters. Based on this evaluation, we conduct large-scale studies,
where the results shed insights into the efficacy of hyperparameters and tricks
used in RL on mitigating length bias. We further propose to improve the reward
model by jointly training two linear heads on shared feature representations to
predict the rewards, one trained to correlate with length, and the other
trained to decorrelate with length and therefore focus more on the actual
content. We then discard the length head in RL to prevent reward hacking on
length. Experiments demonstrate that our approach almost eliminates the reward
correlation with length, and improves the obtained policy by a significant
margin.

---

## 11. [Scaling Laws for Fine-Grained Mixture of Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07871)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07871](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07871)

**Authors**: Jakub Krajewski, Jan Ludziejewski, Kamil Adamczewski, Maciej Pióro, Michał Krutul, Szymon Antoniak, Kamil Ciebiera, Krystian Król, Tomasz Odrzygóźdź, Piotr Sankowski, Marek Cygan, Sebastian Jaszczur

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/llm-random/llm-random)

### Abstract

Mixture of Experts (MoE) models have emerged as a primary solution for
reducing the computational cost of Large Language Models. In this work, we
analyze their scaling properties, incorporating an expanded range of variables.
Specifically, we introduce a new hyperparameter, granularity, whose adjustment
enables precise control over the size of the experts. Building on this, we
establish scaling laws for fine-grained MoE, taking into account the number of
training tokens, model size, and granularity. Leveraging these laws, we derive
the optimal training configuration for a given computational budget. Our
findings not only show that MoE models consistently outperform dense
Transformers but also highlight that the efficiency gap between dense and MoE
models widens as we scale up the model size and training budget. Furthermore,
we demonstrate that the common practice of setting the size of experts in MoE
to mirror the feed-forward layer is not optimal at almost any computational
budget.

---

## 12. [GALA3D: Towards Text-to-3D Complex Scene Generation via Layout-guided
  Generative Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07207)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07207](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07207)

**Authors**: Xiaoyu Zhou, Xingjian Ran, Yajiao Xiong, Jinlin He, Zhiwei Lin, Yongtao Wang, Deqing Sun, Ming-Hsuan Yang

**Published**: 2024-02-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

We present GALA3D, generative 3D GAussians with LAyout-guided control, for
effective compositional text-to-3D generation. We first utilize large language
models (LLMs) to generate the initial layout and introduce a layout-guided 3D
Gaussian representation for 3D content generation with adaptive geometric
constraints. We then propose an object-scene compositional optimization
mechanism with conditioned diffusion to collaboratively generate realistic 3D
scenes with consistent geometry, texture, scale, and accurate interactions
among multiple objects while simultaneously adjusting the coarse layout priors
extracted from the LLMs to align with the generated scene. Experiments show
that GALA3D is a user-friendly, end-to-end framework for state-of-the-art
scene-level 3D content generation and controllable editing while ensuring the
high fidelity of object-level entities within the scene. Source codes and
models will be available at https://gala3d.github.io/.

---

## 13. [LiRank: Industrial Large Scale Ranking Models at LinkedIn](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.06859)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.06859](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06859)

**Authors**: Fedor Borisyuk, Mingzhou Zhou, Qingquan Song, Siyu Zhu, Birjodh Tiwana, Ganesh Parameswaran, Siddharth Dangi, Lars Hertel, Qiang Xiao, Xiaochen Hou, Yunbo Ouyang, Aman Gupta, Sheallika Singh, Dan Liu, Hailing Cheng, Lei Le, Jonathan Hung, Sathiya Keerthi, Ruoyan Wang, Fengyu Zhang, Mohit Kothari, Chen Zhu, Daqi Sun, Yun Dai, Xun Luan, Sirou Zhu, Zhiwei Wang, Neil Daftary, Qianqi Shen, Chengming Jiang, Haichao Wei, Maneesh Varshney, Amol Ghoting, Souvik Ghosh

**Published**: 2024-02-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

We present LiRank, a large-scale ranking framework at LinkedIn that brings to
production state-of-the-art modeling architectures and optimization methods. We
unveil several modeling improvements, including Residual DCN, which adds
attention and residual connections to the famous DCNv2 architecture. We share
insights into combining and tuning SOTA architectures to create a unified
model, including Dense Gating, Transformers and Residual DCN. We also propose
novel techniques for calibration and describe how we productionalized deep
learning based explore/exploit methods. To enable effective, production-grade
serving of large ranking models, we detail how to train and compress models
using quantization and vocabulary compression. We provide details about the
deployment setup for large-scale use cases of Feed ranking, Jobs
Recommendations, and Ads click-through rate (CTR) prediction. We summarize our
learnings from various A/B tests by elucidating the most effective technical
approaches. These ideas have contributed to relative metrics improvements
across the board at LinkedIn: +0.5% member sessions in the Feed, +1.76%
qualified job applications for Jobs search and recommendations, and +4.3% for
Ads CTR. We hope this work can provide practical insights and solutions for
practitioners interested in leveraging large-scale deep ranking systems.

---

## 14. [Policy Improvement using Language Feedback Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07876)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07876](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07876)

**Authors**: Victor Zhong, Dipendra Misra, Xingdi Yuan, Marc-Alexandre Côté

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vzhong/language_feedback_models)

### Abstract

We introduce Language Feedback Models (LFMs) that identify desirable
behaviour - actions that help achieve tasks specified in the instruction - for
imitation learning in instruction following. To train LFMs, we obtain feedback
from Large Language Models (LLMs) on visual trajectories verbalized to language
descriptions. First, by using LFMs to identify desirable behaviour to imitate,
we improve in task-completion rate over strong behavioural cloning baselines on
three distinct language grounding environments (Touchdown, ScienceWorld, and
ALFWorld). Second, LFMs outperform using LLMs as experts to directly predict
actions, when controlling for the number of LLM output tokens. Third, LFMs
generalize to unseen environments, improving task-completion rate by 3.5-12.0%
through one round of adaptation. Finally, LFM can be modified to provide
human-interpretable feedback without performance loss, allowing human
verification of desirable behaviour for imitation learning.

---

## 15. [Step-On-Feet Tuning: Scaling Self-Alignment of LLMs via Bootstrapping](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.07610)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.07610](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07610)

**Authors**: Haoyu Wang, Guozheng Ma, Ziqiao Meng, Zeyu Qin, Li Shen, Zhong Zhang, Bingzhe Wu, Liu Liu, Yatao Bian, Tingyang Xu, Xueqian Wang, Peilin Zhao

**Published**: 2024-02-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Self-alignment is an effective way to reduce the cost of human annotation
while ensuring promising model capability. However, most current methods
complete the data collection and training steps in a single round, which may
overlook the continuously improving ability of self-aligned models. This gives
rise to a key query: What if we do multi-time bootstrapping self-alignment?
Does this strategy enhance model performance or lead to rapid degradation? In
this paper, our pioneering exploration delves into the impact of bootstrapping
self-alignment on large language models. Our findings reveal that bootstrapping
self-alignment markedly surpasses the single-round approach, by guaranteeing
data diversity from in-context learning. To further exploit the capabilities of
bootstrapping, we investigate and adjust the training order of data, which
yields improved performance of the model. Drawing on these findings, we propose
Step-On-Feet Tuning (SOFT) which leverages model's continuously enhanced
few-shot ability to boost zero or one-shot performance. Based on easy-to-hard
training recipe, we propose SOFT+ which further boost self-alignment's
performance. Our experiments demonstrate the efficiency of SOFT (SOFT+) across
various classification and generation tasks, highlighting the potential of
bootstrapping self-alignment on continually enhancing model alignment
performance.

---
