# Daily Papers - 2024-02-19

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-02-19)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [Linear Transformers with Learnable Kernel Functions are Better
  In-Context Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10644)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10644](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10644)

**Organization**: T-Tech

**Authors**: Yaroslav Aksenov, Nikita Balagansky, Sofia Maria Lo Cicero Vaina, Boris Shaposhnikov, Alexey Gorbatovski, Daniil Gavrilov

**Published**: 2024-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 81

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/corl-team/rebased)

### Abstract

Advancing the frontier of subquadratic architectures for Language Models
(LMs) is crucial in the rapidly evolving field of natural language processing.
Current innovations, including State Space Models, were initially celebrated
for surpassing Transformer performance on language modeling tasks. However,
these models have revealed deficiencies in essential In-Context Learning
capabilities - a domain where the Transformer traditionally shines. The Based
model emerged as a hybrid solution, blending a Linear Transformer with a kernel
inspired by the Taylor expansion of exponential functions, augmented by
convolutional networks. Mirroring the Transformer's in-context adeptness, it
became a strong contender in the field. In our work, we present a singular,
elegant alteration to the Based kernel that amplifies its In-Context Learning
abilities evaluated with the Multi-Query Associative Recall task and overall
language modeling process, as demonstrated on the Pile dataset.

---

## 2. [In Search of Needles in a 10M Haystack: Recurrent Memory Finds What LLMs
  Miss](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10790)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10790](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10790)

**Authors**: Yuri Kuratov, Aydar Bulatov, Petr Anokhin, Dmitry Sorokin, Artyom Sorokin, Mikhail Burtsev

**Published**: 2024-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 42

### Abstract

This paper addresses the challenge of processing long documents using
generative transformer models. To evaluate different approaches, we introduce
BABILong, a new benchmark designed to assess model capabilities in extracting
and processing distributed facts within extensive texts. Our evaluation, which
includes benchmarks for GPT-4 and RAG, reveals that common methods are
effective only for sequences up to 10^4 elements. In contrast, fine-tuning
GPT-2 with recurrent memory augmentations enables it to handle tasks involving
up to 10^7 elements. This achievement marks a substantial leap, as it is by
far the longest input processed by any open neural network model to date,
demonstrating a significant improvement in the processing capabilities for long
sequences.

---

## 3. [SPAR: Personalized Content-Based Recommendation via Long Engagement
  Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10555)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10555](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10555)

**Authors**: Chiyu Zhang, Yifei Sun, Jun Chen, Jie Lei, Muhammad Abdul-Mageed, Rong Jin, Sem Park, Ning Yao, Bo Long

**Published**: 2024-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 35

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jyonn/legommenders)

### Abstract

Leveraging users' long engagement histories is essential for personalized
content recommendations. The success of pretrained language models (PLMs) in
NLP has led to their use in encoding user histories and candidate items,
framing content recommendations as textual semantic matching tasks. However,
existing works still struggle with processing very long user historical text
and insufficient user-item interaction. In this paper, we introduce a
content-based recommendation framework, SPAR, which effectively tackles the
challenges of holistic user interest extraction from the long user engagement
history. It achieves so by leveraging PLM, poly-attention layers and attention
sparsity mechanisms to encode user's history in a session-based manner. The
user and item side features are sufficiently fused for engagement prediction
while maintaining standalone representations for both sides, which is efficient
for practical model deployment. Moreover, we enhance user profiling by
exploiting large language model (LLM) to extract global interests from user
engagement history. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets demonstrate
that our framework outperforms existing state-of-the-art (SoTA) methods.

---

## 4. [DataDreamer: A Tool for Synthetic Data Generation and Reproducible LLM
  Workflows](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10379)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10379](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10379)

**Authors**: Ajay Patel, Colin Raffel, Chris Callison-Burch

**Published**: 2024-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/datadreamer-dev/datadreamer)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have become a dominant and important tool for
NLP researchers in a wide range of tasks. Today, many researchers use LLMs in
synthetic data generation, task evaluation, fine-tuning, distillation, and
other model-in-the-loop research workflows. However, challenges arise when
using these models that stem from their scale, their closed source nature, and
the lack of standardized tooling for these new and emerging workflows. The
rapid rise to prominence of these models and these unique challenges has had
immediate adverse impacts on open science and on the reproducibility of work
that uses them. In this paper, we introduce DataDreamer, an open source Python
library that allows researchers to write simple code to implement powerful LLM
workflows. DataDreamer also helps researchers adhere to best practices that we
propose to encourage open science and reproducibility. The library and
documentation are available at https://github.com/datadreamer-dev/DataDreamer .

---

## 5. [LAVE: LLM-Powered Agent Assistance and Language Augmentation for Video
  Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10294)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10294](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10294)

**Authors**: Bryan Wang, Yuliang Li, Zhaoyang Lv, Haijun Xia, Yan Xu, Raj Sodhi

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

Video creation has become increasingly popular, yet the expertise and effort
required for editing often pose barriers to beginners. In this paper, we
explore the integration of large language models (LLMs) into the video editing
workflow to reduce these barriers. Our design vision is embodied in LAVE, a
novel system that provides LLM-powered agent assistance and language-augmented
editing features. LAVE automatically generates language descriptions for the
user's footage, serving as the foundation for enabling the LLM to process
videos and assist in editing tasks. When the user provides editing objectives,
the agent plans and executes relevant actions to fulfill them. Moreover, LAVE
allows users to edit videos through either the agent or direct UI manipulation,
providing flexibility and enabling manual refinement of agent actions. Our user
study, which included eight participants ranging from novices to proficient
editors, demonstrated LAVE's effectiveness. The results also shed light on user
perceptions of the proposed LLM-assisted editing paradigm and its impact on
users' creativity and sense of co-creation. Based on these findings, we propose
design implications to inform the future development of agent-assisted content
editing.

---

## 6. [LLM Comparator: Visual Analytics for Side-by-Side Evaluation of Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10524)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10524](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10524)

**Authors**: Minsuk Kahng, Ian Tenney, Mahima Pushkarna, Michael Xieyang Liu, James Wexler, Emily Reif, Krystal Kallarackal, Minsuk Chang, Michael Terry, Lucas Dixon

**Published**: 2024-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Automatic side-by-side evaluation has emerged as a promising approach to
evaluating the quality of responses from large language models (LLMs). However,
analyzing the results from this evaluation approach raises scalability and
interpretability challenges. In this paper, we present LLM Comparator, a novel
visual analytics tool for interactively analyzing results from automatic
side-by-side evaluation. The tool supports interactive workflows for users to
understand when and why a model performs better or worse than a baseline model,
and how the responses from two models are qualitatively different. We
iteratively designed and developed the tool by closely working with researchers
and engineers at a large technology company. This paper details the user
challenges we identified, the design and development of the tool, and an
observational study with participants who regularly evaluate their models.

---

## 7. [Large Language Models as Zero-shot Dialogue State Tracker through
  Function Calling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10466)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10466](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10466)

**Authors**: Zekun Li, Zhiyu Zoey Chen, Mike Ross, Patrick Huber, Seungwhan Moon, Zhaojiang Lin, Xin Luna Dong, Adithya Sagar, Xifeng Yan, Paul A. Crook

**Published**: 2024-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/fnctod)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly prevalent in conversational
systems due to their advanced understanding and generative capabilities in
general contexts. However, their effectiveness in task-oriented dialogues
(TOD), which requires not only response generation but also effective dialogue
state tracking (DST) within specific tasks and domains, remains less
satisfying. In this work, we propose a novel approach FnCTOD for solving DST
with LLMs through function calling. This method improves zero-shot DST,
allowing adaptation to diverse domains without extensive data collection or
model tuning. Our experimental results demonstrate that our approach achieves
exceptional performance with both modestly sized open-source and also
proprietary LLMs: with in-context prompting it enables various 7B or 13B
parameter models to surpass the previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) achieved by
ChatGPT, and improves ChatGPT's performance beating the SOTA by 5.6% Avg. JGA.
Individual model results for GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 are boosted by 4.8% and 14%,
respectively. We also show that by fine-tuning on a small collection of diverse
task-oriented dialogues, we can equip modestly sized models, specifically a 13B
parameter LLaMA2-Chat model, with function-calling capabilities and DST
performance comparable to ChatGPT while maintaining their chat capabilities. We
plan to open-source experimental code and model.

---

## 8. [Make a Cheap Scaling: A Self-Cascade Diffusion Model for
  Higher-Resolution Adaptation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10491)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10491](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10491)

**Authors**: Lanqing Guo, Yingqing He, Haoxin Chen, Menghan Xia, Xiaodong Cun, Yufei Wang, Siyu Huang, Yong Zhang, Xintao Wang, Qifeng Chen, Ying Shan, Bihan Wen

**Published**: 2024-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/guolanqing/self-cascade)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have proven to be highly effective in image and video
generation; however, they still face composition challenges when generating
images of varying sizes due to single-scale training data. Adapting large
pre-trained diffusion models for higher resolution demands substantial
computational and optimization resources, yet achieving a generation capability
comparable to low-resolution models remains elusive. This paper proposes a
novel self-cascade diffusion model that leverages the rich knowledge gained
from a well-trained low-resolution model for rapid adaptation to
higher-resolution image and video generation, employing either tuning-free or
cheap upsampler tuning paradigms. Integrating a sequence of multi-scale
upsampler modules, the self-cascade diffusion model can efficiently adapt to a
higher resolution, preserving the original composition and generation
capabilities. We further propose a pivot-guided noise re-schedule strategy to
speed up the inference process and improve local structural details. Compared
to full fine-tuning, our approach achieves a 5X training speed-up and requires
only an additional 0.002M tuning parameters. Extensive experiments demonstrate
that our approach can quickly adapt to higher resolution image and video
synthesis by fine-tuning for just 10k steps, with virtually no additional
inference time.

---

## 9. [PaLM2-VAdapter: Progressively Aligned Language Model Makes a Strong
  Vision-language Adapter](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10896)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10896](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10896)

**Authors**: Junfei Xiao, Zheng Xu, Alan Yuille, Shen Yan, Boyu Wang

**Published**: 2024-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

This paper demonstrates that a progressively aligned language model can
effectively bridge frozen vision encoders and large language models (LLMs).
While the fundamental architecture and pre-training methods of vision encoders
and LLMs have been extensively studied, the architecture and training strategy
of vision-language adapters vary significantly across recent works. Our
research undertakes a thorough exploration of the state-of-the-art perceiver
resampler architecture and builds a strong baseline. However, we observe that
the vision-language alignment with perceiver resampler exhibits slow
convergence and limited scalability with a lack of direct supervision. To
address this issue, we propose PaLM2-VAdapter, employing a progressively
aligned language model as the vision-language adapter. Compared to the strong
baseline with perceiver resampler, our method empirically shows faster
convergence, higher performance, and stronger scalability. Extensive
experiments across various Visual Question Answering (VQA) and captioning tasks
on both images and videos demonstrate that our model exhibits state-of-the-art
visual understanding and multi-modal reasoning capabilities. Notably, our
method achieves these advancements with 30~70% fewer parameters than the
state-of-the-art large vision-language models, marking a significant efficiency
improvement.

---

## 10. [Universal Manipulation Interface: In-The-Wild Robot Teaching Without
  In-The-Wild Robots](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10329)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10329](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10329)

**Authors**: Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Chuer Pan, Eric Cousineau, Benjamin Burchfiel, Siyuan Feng, Russ Tedrake, Shuran Song

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

We present Universal Manipulation Interface (UMI) -- a data collection and
policy learning framework that allows direct skill transfer from in-the-wild
human demonstrations to deployable robot policies. UMI employs hand-held
grippers coupled with careful interface design to enable portable, low-cost,
and information-rich data collection for challenging bimanual and dynamic
manipulation demonstrations. To facilitate deployable policy learning, UMI
incorporates a carefully designed policy interface with inference-time latency
matching and a relative-trajectory action representation. The resulting learned
policies are hardware-agnostic and deployable across multiple robot platforms.
Equipped with these features, UMI framework unlocks new robot manipulation
capabilities, allowing zero-shot generalizable dynamic, bimanual, precise, and
long-horizon behaviors, by only changing the training data for each task. We
demonstrate UMI's versatility and efficacy with comprehensive real-world
experiments, where policies learned via UMI zero-shot generalize to novel
environments and objects when trained on diverse human demonstrations. UMI's
hardware and software system is open-sourced at https://umi-gripper.github.io.

---

## 11. [GaussianObject: Just Taking Four Images to Get A High-Quality 3D Object
  with Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10259)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10259](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10259)

**Authors**: Jiemin Fang, Ruofan Liang, Lingxi Xie, Xiaopeng Zhang, Wei Shen, Qi Tian

**Published**: 2024-02-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/GaussianObject/GaussianObject)

### Abstract

Reconstructing and rendering 3D objects from highly sparse views is of
critical importance for promoting applications of 3D vision techniques and
improving user experience. However, images from sparse views only contain very
limited 3D information, leading to two significant challenges: 1) Difficulty in
building multi-view consistency as images for matching are too few; 2)
Partially omitted or highly compressed object information as view coverage is
insufficient. To tackle these challenges, we propose GaussianObject, a
framework to represent and render the 3D object with Gaussian splatting, that
achieves high rendering quality with only 4 input images. We first introduce
techniques of visual hull and floater elimination which explicitly inject
structure priors into the initial optimization process for helping build
multi-view consistency, yielding a coarse 3D Gaussian representation. Then we
construct a Gaussian repair model based on diffusion models to supplement the
omitted object information, where Gaussians are further refined. We design a
self-generating strategy to obtain image pairs for training the repair model.
Our GaussianObject is evaluated on several challenging datasets, including
MipNeRF360, OmniObject3D, and OpenIllumination, achieving strong reconstruction
results from only 4 views and significantly outperforming previous
state-of-the-art methods.

---

## 12. [RLVF: Learning from Verbal Feedback without Overgeneralization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.10893)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.10893](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10893)

**Authors**: Moritz Stephan, Alexander Khazatsky, Eric Mitchell, Annie S Chen, Sheryl Hsu, Archit Sharma, Chelsea Finn

**Published**: 2024-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-02-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/austrian-code-wizard/c3po)

### Abstract

The diversity of contexts in which large language models (LLMs) are deployed
requires the ability to modify or customize default model behaviors to
incorporate nuanced requirements and preferences. A convenient interface to
specify such model adjustments is high-level verbal feedback, such as "Don't
use emojis when drafting emails to my boss." However, while writing high-level
feedback is far simpler than collecting annotations for reinforcement learning
from human feedback (RLHF), we find that simply prompting a model with such
feedback leads to overgeneralization of the feedback to contexts where it is
not relevant. We study the problem of incorporating verbal feedback without
such overgeneralization, inspiring a new method Contextualized Critiques with
Constrained Preference Optimization (C3PO). C3PO uses a piece of high-level
feedback to generate a small synthetic preference dataset specifying how the
feedback should (and should not) be applied. It then fine-tunes the model in
accordance with the synthetic preference data while minimizing the divergence
from the original model for prompts where the feedback does not apply. Our
experimental results indicate that our approach effectively applies verbal
feedback to relevant scenarios while preserving existing behaviors for other
contexts. For both human- and GPT-4-generated high-level feedback, C3PO
effectively adheres to the given feedback comparably to in-context baselines
while reducing overgeneralization by 30%.

---
