# Daily Papers - 2023-05-25

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-25)

Total papers: 5

---

## 1. [Is GPT-4 a Good Data Analyst?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.15038)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.15038](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.15038)

**Authors**: Liying Cheng, Xingxuan Li, Lidong Bing

**Published**: 2023-05-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/damo-nlp-sg/gpt4-as-dataanalyst)

### Abstract

As large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated their powerful capabilities
in plenty of domains and tasks, including context understanding, code
generation, language generation, data storytelling, etc., many data analysts
may raise concerns if their jobs will be replaced by AI. This controversial
topic has drawn a lot of attention in public. However, we are still at a stage
of divergent opinions without any definitive conclusion. Motivated by this, we
raise the research question of "is GPT-4 a good data analyst?" in this work and
aim to answer it by conducting head-to-head comparative studies. In detail, we
regard GPT-4 as a data analyst to perform end-to-end data analysis with
databases from a wide range of domains. We propose a framework to tackle the
problems by carefully designing the prompts for GPT-4 to conduct experiments.
We also design several task-specific evaluation metrics to systematically
compare the performance between several professional human data analysts and
GPT-4. Experimental results show that GPT-4 can achieve comparable performance
to humans. We also provide in-depth discussions about our results to shed light
on further studies before we reach the conclusion that GPT-4 can replace data
analysts.

---

## 2. [LLMs as Factual Reasoners: Insights from Existing Benchmarks and Beyond](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.14540)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.14540](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14540)

**Authors**: Philippe Laban, Wojciech Kryściński, Divyansh Agarwal, Alexander R. Fabbri, Caiming Xiong, Shafiq Joty, Chien-Sheng Wu

**Published**: 2023-05-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/salesforce/factualnlg)

### Abstract

With the recent appearance of LLMs in practical settings, having methods that
can effectively detect factual inconsistencies is crucial to reduce the
propagation of misinformation and improve trust in model outputs. When testing
on existing factual consistency benchmarks, we find that a few large language
models (LLMs) perform competitively on classification benchmarks for factual
inconsistency detection compared to traditional non-LLM methods. However, a
closer analysis reveals that most LLMs fail on more complex formulations of the
task and exposes issues with existing evaluation benchmarks, affecting
evaluation precision. To address this, we propose a new protocol for
inconsistency detection benchmark creation and implement it in a 10-domain
benchmark called SummEdits. This new benchmark is 20 times more cost-effective
per sample than previous benchmarks and highly reproducible, as we estimate
inter-annotator agreement at about 0.9. Most LLMs struggle on SummEdits, with
performance close to random chance. The best-performing model, GPT-4, is still
8\% below estimated human performance, highlighting the gaps in LLMs' ability
to reason about facts and detect inconsistencies when they occur.

---

## 3. [SPRING: GPT-4 Out-performs RL Algorithms by Studying Papers and
  Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.15486)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.15486](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.15486)

**Authors**: Yue Wu, So Yeon Min, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yonatan Bisk, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Amos Azaria, Tom Mitchell, Yuanzhi Li

**Published**: 2023-05-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/holmeswww/spring)

### Abstract

Open-world survival games pose significant challenges for AI algorithms due
to their multi-tasking, deep exploration, and goal prioritization requirements.
Despite reinforcement learning (RL) being popular for solving games, its high
sample complexity limits its effectiveness in complex open-world games like
Crafter or Minecraft. We propose a novel approach, SPRING, to read the game's
original academic paper and use the knowledge learned to reason and play the
game through a large language model (LLM). Prompted with the LaTeX source as
game context and a description of the agent's current observation, our SPRING
framework employs a directed acyclic graph (DAG) with game-related questions as
nodes and dependencies as edges. We identify the optimal action to take in the
environment by traversing the DAG and calculating LLM responses for each node
in topological order, with the LLM's answer to final node directly translating
to environment actions. In our experiments, we study the quality of in-context
"reasoning" induced by different forms of prompts under the setting of the
Crafter open-world environment. Our experiments suggest that LLMs, when
prompted with consistent chain-of-thought, have great potential in completing
sophisticated high-level trajectories. Quantitatively, SPRING with GPT-4
outperforms all state-of-the-art RL baselines, trained for 1M steps, without
any training. Finally, we show the potential of games as a test bed for LLMs.

---

## 4. [Leveraging GPT-4 for Automatic Translation Post-Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.14878)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.14878](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14878)

**Authors**: Vikas Raunak, Amr Sharaf, Hany Hassan Awadallah, Arul Menezes

**Published**: 2023-05-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

While Neural Machine Translation (NMT) represents the leading approach to
Machine Translation (MT), the outputs of NMT models still require translation
post-editing to rectify errors and enhance quality, particularly under critical
settings. In this work, we formalize the task of translation post-editing with
Large Language Models (LLMs) and explore the use of GPT-4 to automatically
post-edit NMT outputs across several language pairs. Our results demonstrate
that GPT-4 is adept at translation post-editing and produces meaningful edits
even when the target language is not English. Notably, we achieve
state-of-the-art performance on WMT-22 English-Chinese, English-German,
Chinese-English and German-English language pairs using GPT-4 based
post-editing, as evaluated by state-of-the-art MT quality metrics.

---

## 5. [PEARL: Prompting Large Language Models to Plan and Execute Actions Over
  Long Documents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.14564)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.14564](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14564)

**Authors**: Simeng Sun, Yang Liu, Shuohang Wang, Chenguang Zhu, Mohit Iyyer

**Published**: 2023-05-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/simengsun/pearl)

### Abstract

Strategies such as chain-of-thought prompting improve the performance of
large language models (LLMs) on complex reasoning tasks by decomposing input
examples into intermediate steps. However, it remains unclear how to apply such
methods to reason over long input documents, in which both the decomposition
and the output of each intermediate step are non-trivial to obtain. In this
work, we propose PEARL, a prompting framework to improve reasoning over long
documents, which consists of three stages: action mining, plan formulation, and
plan execution. More specifically, given a question about a long document,
PEARL decomposes the question into a sequence of actions (e.g., SUMMARIZE,
FIND_EVENT, FIND_RELATION) and then executes them over the document to obtain
the answer. Each stage of PEARL is implemented via zero-shot or few-shot
prompting of LLMs (in our work, GPT-4) with minimal human input. We evaluate
PEARL on a challenging subset of the QuALITY dataset, which contains questions
that require complex reasoning over long narrative texts. PEARL outperforms
zero-shot and chain-of-thought prompting on this dataset, and ablation
experiments show that each stage of PEARL is critical to its performance.
Overall, PEARL is a first step towards leveraging LLMs to reason over long
documents.

---
