# Daily Papers - 2023-05-31

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-31)

Total papers: 14

---

## 1. [Tree-Ring Watermarks: Fingerprints for Diffusion Images that are
  Invisible and Robust](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.20030)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.20030](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.20030)

**Authors**: Yuxin Wen, John Kirchenbauer, Jonas Geiping, Tom Goldstein

**Published**: 2023-05-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/YuxinWenRick/tree-ring-watermark)

### Abstract

Watermarking the outputs of generative models is a crucial technique for
tracing copyright and preventing potential harm from AI-generated content. In
this paper, we introduce a novel technique called Tree-Ring Watermarking that
robustly fingerprints diffusion model outputs. Unlike existing methods that
perform post-hoc modifications to images after sampling, Tree-Ring Watermarking
subtly influences the entire sampling process, resulting in a model fingerprint
that is invisible to humans. The watermark embeds a pattern into the initial
noise vector used for sampling. These patterns are structured in Fourier space
so that they are invariant to convolutions, crops, dilations, flips, and
rotations. After image generation, the watermark signal is detected by
inverting the diffusion process to retrieve the noise vector, which is then
checked for the embedded signal. We demonstrate that this technique can be
easily applied to arbitrary diffusion models, including text-conditioned Stable
Diffusion, as a plug-in with negligible loss in FID. Our watermark is
semantically hidden in the image space and is far more robust than watermarking
alternatives that are currently deployed. Code is available at
github.com/YuxinWenRick/tree-ring-watermark.

---

## 2. [Faith and Fate: Limits of Transformers on Compositionality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.18654)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.18654](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18654)

**Authors**: Nouha Dziri, Ximing Lu, Melanie Sclar, Xiang Lorraine Li, Liwei Jian, Bill Yuchen Lin, Peter West, Chandra Bhagavatula, Ronan Le Bras, Jena D. Hwang, Soumya Sanyal, Sean Welleck, Xiang Ren, Allyson Ettinger, Zaid Harchaoui, Yejin Choi

**Published**: 2023-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nouhadziri/faith-and-fate)

### Abstract

Transformer large language models (LLMs) have sparked admiration for their
exceptional performance on tasks that demand intricate multi-step reasoning.
Yet, these models simultaneously show failures on surprisingly trivial
problems. This begs the question: Are these errors incidental, or do they
signal more substantial limitations? In an attempt to demystify Transformers,
we investigate the limits of these models across three representative
compositional tasks -- multi-digit multiplication, logic grid puzzles, and a
classic dynamic programming problem. These tasks require breaking problems down
into sub-steps and synthesizing these steps into a precise answer. We formulate
compositional tasks as computation graphs to systematically quantify the level
of complexity, and break down reasoning steps into intermediate sub-procedures.
Our empirical findings suggest that Transformers solve compositional tasks by
reducing multi-step compositional reasoning into linearized subgraph matching,
without necessarily developing systematic problem-solving skills. To round off
our empirical study, we provide theoretical arguments on abstract multi-step
reasoning problems that highlight how Transformers' performance will rapidly
decay with increased task complexity.

---

## 3. [HiFA: High-fidelity Text-to-3D with Advanced Diffusion Guidance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.18766)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.18766](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18766)

**Authors**: Joseph Zhu, Peiye Zhuang

**Published**: 2023-05-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/JunzheJosephZhu/HiFA)

### Abstract

Automatic text-to-3D synthesis has achieved remarkable advancements through
the optimization of 3D models. Existing methods commonly rely on pre-trained
text-to-image generative models, such as diffusion models, providing scores for
2D renderings of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) and being utilized for
optimizing NeRFs. However, these methods often encounter artifacts and
inconsistencies across multiple views due to their limited understanding of 3D
geometry. To address these limitations, we propose a reformulation of the
optimization loss using the diffusion prior. Furthermore, we introduce a novel
training approach that unlocks the potential of the diffusion prior. To improve
3D geometry representation, we apply auxiliary depth supervision for
NeRF-rendered images and regularize the density field of NeRFs. Extensive
experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method over prior works,
resulting in advanced photo-realism and improved multi-view consistency.

---

## 4. [StyleAvatar3D: Leveraging Image-Text Diffusion Models for High-Fidelity
  3D Avatar Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.19012)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.19012](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.19012)

**Authors**: Chi Zhang, Yiwen Chen, Yijun Fu, Zhenglin Zhou, Gang YU, Billzb Wang, Bin Fu, Tao Chen, Guosheng Lin, Chunhua Shen

**Published**: 2023-05-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/icoz69/styleavatar3d)

### Abstract

The recent advancements in image-text diffusion models have stimulated
research interest in large-scale 3D generative models. Nevertheless, the
limited availability of diverse 3D resources presents significant challenges to
learning. In this paper, we present a novel method for generating high-quality,
stylized 3D avatars that utilizes pre-trained image-text diffusion models for
data generation and a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)-based 3D generation
network for training. Our method leverages the comprehensive priors of
appearance and geometry offered by image-text diffusion models to generate
multi-view images of avatars in various styles. During data generation, we
employ poses extracted from existing 3D models to guide the generation of
multi-view images. To address the misalignment between poses and images in
data, we investigate view-specific prompts and develop a coarse-to-fine
discriminator for GAN training. We also delve into attribute-related prompts to
increase the diversity of the generated avatars. Additionally, we develop a
latent diffusion model within the style space of StyleGAN to enable the
generation of avatars based on image inputs. Our approach demonstrates superior
performance over current state-of-the-art methods in terms of visual quality
and diversity of the produced avatars.

---

## 5. [LibriTTS-R: A Restored Multi-Speaker Text-to-Speech Corpus](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.18802)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.18802](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18802)

**Authors**: Yuma Koizumi, Heiga Zen, Shigeki Karita, Yifan Ding, Kohei Yatabe, Nobuyuki Morioka, Michiel Bacchiani, Yu Zhang, Wei Han, Ankur Bapna

**Published**: 2023-05-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

This paper introduces a new speech dataset called ``LibriTTS-R'' designed for
text-to-speech (TTS) use. It is derived by applying speech restoration to the
LibriTTS corpus, which consists of 585 hours of speech data at 24 kHz sampling
rate from 2,456 speakers and the corresponding texts. The constituent samples
of LibriTTS-R are identical to those of LibriTTS, with only the sound quality
improved. Experimental results show that the LibriTTS-R ground-truth samples
showed significantly improved sound quality compared to those in LibriTTS. In
addition, neural end-to-end TTS trained with LibriTTS-R achieved speech
naturalness on par with that of the ground-truth samples. The corpus is freely
available for download from http://www.openslr.org/141/.

---

## 6. [Real-World Image Variation by Aligning Diffusion Inversion Chain](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.18729)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.18729](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18729)

**Authors**: Yuechen Zhang, Jinbo Xing, Eric Lo, Jiaya Jia

**Published**: 2023-05-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dvlab-research/rival)

### Abstract

Recent diffusion model advancements have enabled high-fidelity images to be
generated using text prompts. However, a domain gap exists between generated
images and real-world images, which poses a challenge in generating
high-quality variations of real-world images. Our investigation uncovers that
this domain gap originates from a latents' distribution gap in different
diffusion processes. To address this issue, we propose a novel inference
pipeline called Real-world Image Variation by ALignment (RIVAL) that utilizes
diffusion models to generate image variations from a single image exemplar. Our
pipeline enhances the generation quality of image variations by aligning the
image generation process to the source image's inversion chain. Specifically,
we demonstrate that step-wise latent distribution alignment is essential for
generating high-quality variations. To attain this, we design a cross-image
self-attention injection for feature interaction and a step-wise distribution
normalization to align the latent features. Incorporating these alignment
processes into a diffusion model allows RIVAL to generate high-quality image
variations without further parameter optimization. Our experimental results
demonstrate that our proposed approach outperforms existing methods with
respect to semantic-condition similarity and perceptual quality. Furthermore,
this generalized inference pipeline can be easily applied to other
diffusion-based generation tasks, such as image-conditioned text-to-image
generation and example-based image inpainting.

---

## 7. [Grammar Prompting for Domain-Specific Language Generation with Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.19234)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.19234](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.19234)

**Authors**: Bailin Wang, Zi Wang, Xuezhi Wang, Yuan Cao, Rif A. Saurous, Yoon Kim

**Published**: 2023-05-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/berlino/grammar-prompting)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) can learn to perform a wide range of natural
language tasks from just a handful of in-context examples. However, for
generating strings from highly structured languages (e.g., semantic parsing to
complex domain-specific languages), it is challenging for the LLM to generalize
from just a few exemplars. We explore grammar prompting as a simple
approach for enabling LLMs to use external knowledge and domain-specific
constraints, expressed through a grammar expressed in Backus--Naur Form (BNF),
during in-context learning. Grammar prompting augments each demonstration
example with a specialized grammar that is minimally sufficient for generating
the particular output example, where the specialized grammar is a subset of the
full DSL grammar. For inference, the LLM first predicts a BNF grammar given a
test input, and then generates the output according to the rules of the
grammar. Experiments demonstrate that grammar prompting can enable LLMs to
perform competitively on a diverse set of DSL generation tasks, including
semantic parsing (SMCalFlow, Overnight, GeoQuery), PDDL planning, and even
molecule generation (SMILES).

---

## 8. [PaLI-X: On Scaling up a Multilingual Vision and Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.18565)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.18565](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18565)

**Authors**: Xi Chen, Josip Djolonga, Piotr Padlewski, Basil Mustafa, Soravit Changpinyo, Jialin Wu, Carlos Riquelme Ruiz, Sebastian Goodman, Xiao Wang, Yi Tay, Siamak Shakeri, Mostafa Dehghani, Daniel Salz, Mario Lucic, Michael Tschannen, Arsha Nagrani, Hexiang Hu, Mandar Joshi, Bo Pang, Ceslee Montgomery, Paulina Pietrzyk, Marvin Ritter, AJ Piergiovanni, Matthias Minderer, Filip Pavetic, Austin Waters, Gang Li, Ibrahim Alabdulmohsin, Lucas Beyer, Julien Amelot, Kenton Lee, Andreas Peter Steiner, Yang Li, Daniel Keysers, Anurag Arnab, Yuanzhong Xu, Keran Rong, Alexander Kolesnikov, Mojtaba Seyedhosseini, Anelia Angelova, Xiaohua Zhai, Neil Houlsby, Radu Soricut

**Published**: 2023-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kyegomez/PALI)

### Abstract

We present the training recipe and results of scaling up PaLI-X, a
multilingual vision and language model, both in terms of size of the components
and the breadth of its training task mixture. Our model achieves new levels of
performance on a wide-range of varied and complex tasks, including multiple
image-based captioning and question-answering tasks, image-based document
understanding and few-shot (in-context) learning, as well as object detection,
video question answering, and video captioning. PaLI-X advances the
state-of-the-art on most vision-and-language benchmarks considered (25+ of
them). Finally, we observe emerging capabilities, such as complex counting and
multilingual object detection, tasks that are not explicitly in the training
mix.

---

## 9. [Make-An-Audio 2: Temporal-Enhanced Text-to-Audio Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.18474)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.18474](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18474)

**Authors**: Jiawei Huang, Yi Ren, Rongjie Huang, Dongchao Yang, Zhenhui Ye, Chen Zhang, Jinglin Liu, Xiang Yin, Zejun Ma, Zhou Zhao

**Published**: 2023-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bytedance/make-an-audio-2)

### Abstract

Large diffusion models have been successful in text-to-audio (T2A) synthesis
tasks, but they often suffer from common issues such as semantic misalignment
and poor temporal consistency due to limited natural language understanding and
data scarcity. Additionally, 2D spatial structures widely used in T2A works
lead to unsatisfactory audio quality when generating variable-length audio
samples since they do not adequately prioritize temporal information. To
address these challenges, we propose Make-an-Audio 2, a latent diffusion-based
T2A method that builds on the success of Make-an-Audio. Our approach includes
several techniques to improve semantic alignment and temporal consistency:
Firstly, we use pre-trained large language models (LLMs) to parse the text into
structured <event & order> pairs for better temporal information capture. We
also introduce another structured-text encoder to aid in learning semantic
alignment during the diffusion denoising process. To improve the performance of
variable length generation and enhance the temporal information extraction, we
design a feed-forward Transformer-based diffusion denoiser. Finally, we use
LLMs to augment and transform a large amount of audio-label data into
audio-text datasets to alleviate the problem of scarcity of temporal data.
Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms baseline models in both
objective and subjective metrics, and achieves significant gains in temporal
information understanding, semantic consistency, and sound quality.

---

## 10. [AlteredAvatar: Stylizing Dynamic 3D Avatars with Fast Style Adaptation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.19245)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.19245](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.19245)

**Authors**: Thu Nguyen-Phuoc, Gabriel Schwartz, Yuting Ye, Stephen Lombardi, Lei Xiao

**Published**: 2023-05-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

This paper presents a method that can quickly adapt dynamic 3D avatars to
arbitrary text descriptions of novel styles. Among existing approaches for
avatar stylization, direct optimization methods can produce excellent results
for arbitrary styles but they are unpleasantly slow. Furthermore, they require
redoing the optimization process from scratch for every new input. Fast
approximation methods using feed-forward networks trained on a large dataset of
style images can generate results for new inputs quickly, but tend not to
generalize well to novel styles and fall short in quality. We therefore
investigate a new approach, AlteredAvatar, that combines those two approaches
using the meta-learning framework. In the inner loop, the model learns to
optimize to match a single target style well; while in the outer loop, the
model learns to stylize efficiently across many styles. After training,
AlteredAvatar learns an initialization that can quickly adapt within a small
number of update steps to a novel style, which can be given using texts, a
reference image, or a combination of both. We show that AlteredAvatar can
achieve a good balance between speed, flexibility and quality, while
maintaining consistency across a wide range of novel views and facial
expressions.

---

## 11. [LANCE: Stress-testing Visual Models by Generating Language-guided
  Counterfactual Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.19164)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.19164](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.19164)

**Authors**: Viraj Prabhu, Sriram Yenamandra, Prithvijit Chattopadhyay, Judy Hoffman

**Published**: 2023-05-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/virajprabhu/lance)

### Abstract

We propose an automated algorithm to stress-test a trained visual model by
generating language-guided counterfactual test images (LANCE). Our method
leverages recent progress in large language modeling and text-based image
editing to augment an IID test set with a suite of diverse, realistic, and
challenging test images without altering model weights. We benchmark the
performance of a diverse set of pretrained models on our generated data and
observe significant and consistent performance drops. We further analyze model
sensitivity across different types of edits, and demonstrate its applicability
at surfacing previously unknown class-level model biases in ImageNet.

---

## 12. [Geometric Algebra Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.18415)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.18415](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18415)

**Authors**: Johann Brehmer, Pim de Haan, Sönke Behrends, Taco Cohen

**Published**: 2023-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sukjulian/lab-gatr)

### Abstract

Problems involving geometric data arise in a variety of fields, including
computer vision, robotics, chemistry, and physics. Such data can take numerous
forms, such as points, direction vectors, planes, or transformations, but to
date there is no single architecture that can be applied to such a wide variety
of geometric types while respecting their symmetries. In this paper we
introduce the Geometric Algebra Transformer (GATr), a general-purpose
architecture for geometric data. GATr represents inputs, outputs, and hidden
states in the projective geometric algebra, which offers an efficient
16-dimensional vector space representation of common geometric objects as well
as operators acting on them. GATr is equivariant with respect to E(3), the
symmetry group of 3D Euclidean space. As a transformer, GATr is scalable,
expressive, and versatile. In experiments with n-body modeling and robotic
planning, GATr shows strong improvements over non-geometric baselines.

---

## 13. [Nested Diffusion Processes for Anytime Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.19066)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.19066](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.19066)

**Authors**: Noam Elata, Bahjat Kawar, Tomer Michaeli, Michael Elad

**Published**: 2023-05-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/noamelata/nesteddiffusion)

### Abstract

Diffusion models are the current state-of-the-art in image generation,
synthesizing high-quality images by breaking down the generation process into
many fine-grained denoising steps. Despite their good performance, diffusion
models are computationally expensive, requiring many neural function
evaluations (NFEs). In this work, we propose an anytime diffusion-based method
that can generate viable images when stopped at arbitrary times before
completion. Using existing pretrained diffusion models, we show that the
generation scheme can be recomposed as two nested diffusion processes, enabling
fast iterative refinement of a generated image. We use this Nested Diffusion
approach to peek into the generation process and enable flexible scheduling
based on the instantaneous preference of the user. In experiments on ImageNet
and Stable Diffusion-based text-to-image generation, we show, both
qualitatively and quantitatively, that our method's intermediate generation
quality greatly exceeds that of the original diffusion model, while the final
slow generation result remains comparable.

---

## 14. [KAFA: Rethinking Image Ad Understanding with Knowledge-Augmented Feature
  Adaptation of Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.18373)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.18373](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18373)

**Authors**: Zhiwei Jia, Pradyumna Narayana, Arjun R. Akula, Garima Pruthi, Hao Su, Sugato Basu, Varun Jampani

**Published**: 2023-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Image ad understanding is a crucial task with wide real-world applications.
Although highly challenging with the involvement of diverse atypical scenes,
real-world entities, and reasoning over scene-texts, how to interpret image ads
is relatively under-explored, especially in the era of foundational
vision-language models (VLMs) featuring impressive generalizability and
adaptability. In this paper, we perform the first empirical study of image ad
understanding through the lens of pre-trained VLMs. We benchmark and reveal
practical challenges in adapting these VLMs to image ad understanding. We
propose a simple feature adaptation strategy to effectively fuse multimodal
information for image ads and further empower it with knowledge of real-world
entities. We hope our study draws more attention to image ad understanding
which is broadly relevant to the advertising industry.

---
