# Daily Papers - 2023-05-29

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-29)

Total papers: 21

---

## 1. [Break-A-Scene: Extracting Multiple Concepts from a Single Image](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16311)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16311](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16311)

**Authors**: Omri Avrahami, Kfir Aberman, Ohad Fried, Daniel Cohen-Or, Dani Lischinski

**Published**: 2023-05-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google/break-a-scene) | [Project Page](https://omriavrahami.com/break-a-scene/)

### Abstract

Text-to-image model personalization aims to introduce a user-provided concept
to the model, allowing its synthesis in diverse contexts. However, current
methods primarily focus on the case of learning a single concept from multiple
images with variations in backgrounds and poses, and struggle when adapted to a
different scenario. In this work, we introduce the task of textual scene
decomposition: given a single image of a scene that may contain several
concepts, we aim to extract a distinct text token for each concept, enabling
fine-grained control over the generated scenes. To this end, we propose
augmenting the input image with masks that indicate the presence of target
concepts. These masks can be provided by the user or generated automatically by
a pre-trained segmentation model. We then present a novel two-phase
customization process that optimizes a set of dedicated textual embeddings
(handles), as well as the model weights, striking a delicate balance between
accurately capturing the concepts and avoiding overfitting. We employ a masked
diffusion loss to enable handles to generate their assigned concepts,
complemented by a novel loss on cross-attention maps to prevent entanglement.
We also introduce union-sampling, a training strategy aimed to improve the
ability of combining multiple concepts in generated images. We use several
automatic metrics to quantitatively compare our method against several
baselines, and further affirm the results using a user study. Finally, we
showcase several applications of our method. Project page is available at:
https://omriavrahami.com/break-a-scene/

---

## 2. [ControlVideo: Adding Conditional Control for One Shot Text-to-Video
  Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.17098)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.17098](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.17098)

**Authors**: Min Zhao, Rongzhen Wang, Fan Bao, Chongxuan Li, Jun Zhu

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thu-ml/controlvideo)

### Abstract

In this paper, we present ControlVideo, a novel method for text-driven video
editing. Leveraging the capabilities of text-to-image diffusion models and
ControlNet, ControlVideo aims to enhance the fidelity and temporal consistency
of videos that align with a given text while preserving the structure of the
source video. This is achieved by incorporating additional conditions such as
edge maps, fine-tuning the key-frame and temporal attention on the source
video-text pair with carefully designed strategies. An in-depth exploration of
ControlVideo's design is conducted to inform future research on one-shot tuning
video diffusion models. Quantitatively, ControlVideo outperforms a range of
competitive baselines in terms of faithfulness and consistency while still
aligning with the textual prompt. Additionally, it delivers videos with high
visual realism and fidelity w.r.t. the source content, demonstrating
flexibility in utilizing controls containing varying degrees of source video
information, and the potential for multiple control combinations. The project
page is available at
https://ml.cs.tsinghua.edu.cn/controlvideo/{https://ml.cs.tsinghua.edu.cn/controlvideo/}.

---

## 3. [Scan and Snap: Understanding Training Dynamics and Token Composition in
  1-layer Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16380)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16380](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16380)

**Authors**: Yuandong Tian, Yiping Wang, Beidi Chen, Simon Du

**Published**: 2023-05-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Transformer architecture has shown impressive performance in multiple
research domains and has become the backbone of many neural network models.
However, there is limited understanding on how it works. In particular, with a
simple predictive loss, how the representation emerges from the gradient
training dynamics remains a mystery. In this paper, for 1-layer
transformer with one self-attention layer plus one decoder layer, we analyze
its SGD training dynamics for the task of next token prediction in a
mathematically rigorous manner. We open the black box of the dynamic process of
how the self-attention layer combines input tokens, and reveal the nature of
underlying inductive bias. More specifically, with the assumption (a) no
positional encoding, (b) long input sequence, and (c) the decoder layer learns
faster than the self-attention layer, we prove that self-attention acts as a
discriminative scanning algorithm: starting from uniform attention, it
gradually attends more to distinct key tokens for a specific next token to be
predicted, and pays less attention to common key tokens that occur across
different next tokens. Among distinct tokens, it progressively drops attention
weights, following the order of low to high co-occurrence between the key and
the query token in the training set. Interestingly, this procedure does not
lead to winner-takes-all, but decelerates due to a phase transition that
is controllable by the learning rates of the two layers, leaving (almost) fixed
token combination. We verify this \emph{scan and snap} dynamics on
synthetic and real-world data (WikiText).

---

## 4. [Large Language Models as Tool Makers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.17126)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.17126](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.17126)

**Authors**: Tianle Cai, Xuezhi Wang, Tengyu Ma, Xinyun Chen, Denny Zhou

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ctlllll/llm-toolmaker)

### Abstract

Recent research shows the potential of enhancing the problem-solving ability
of large language models (LLMs) through the use of external tools. However,
prior work along this line depends on the availability of existing tools. In
this work, we take an initial step towards removing this dependency by
proposing a closed-loop framework, referred to as LLMs As Tool Makers (LATM),
where LLMs create their own reusable tools for problem-solving. Our approach
consists of two key phases: 1) tool making: an LLM acts as the tool maker that
crafts tools for given tasks, where a tool is implemented as a Python utility
function. 2) tool using: an LLM acts as the tool user, which applies the tool
built by the tool maker for problem-solving. The tool user can be either the
same or a different LLM from the tool maker. Tool-making enables an LLM to
continually generate tools that can be applied to different requests so that
future requests can call the corresponding APIs when beneficial for solving the
tasks. Furthermore, the division of labor among LLMs for tool-making and
tool-using phases introduces the opportunity to achieve cost effectiveness
without degrading the quality of generated tools and problem solutions. For
example, recognizing that tool-making demands more sophisticated capabilities
than tool-using, we can apply a powerful yet resource-intensive model as the
tool maker, and a lightweight while cost-effective model as the tool user. We
validate the effectiveness of our approach across a variety of complex
reasoning tasks, including Big-Bench tasks. With GPT-4 as the tool maker and
GPT-3.5 as the tool user, LATM can achieve performance that is on par with
using GPT-4 for both tool making and tool using, while the inference cost is
significantly reduced.

---

## 5. [Training Socially Aligned Language Models in Simulated Human Society](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16960)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16960](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16960)

**Authors**: Ruibo Liu, Ruixin Yang, Chenyan Jia, Ge Zhang, Denny Zhou, Andrew M. Dai, Diyi Yang, Soroush Vosoughi

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/agi-templar/Stable-Alignment)

### Abstract

Social alignment in AI systems aims to ensure that these models behave
according to established societal values. However, unlike humans, who derive
consensus on value judgments through social interaction, current language
models (LMs) are trained to rigidly replicate their training corpus in
isolation, leading to subpar generalization in unfamiliar scenarios and
vulnerability to adversarial attacks. This work presents a novel training
paradigm that permits LMs to learn from simulated social interactions. In
comparison to existing methodologies, our approach is considerably more
scalable and efficient, demonstrating superior performance in alignment
benchmarks and human evaluations. This paradigm shift in the training of LMs
brings us a step closer to developing AI systems that can robustly and
accurately reflect societal norms and values.

---

## 6. [DPOK: Reinforcement Learning for Fine-tuning Text-to-Image Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16381)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16381](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16381)

**Authors**: Ying Fan, Olivia Watkins, Yuqing Du, Hao Liu, Moonkyung Ryu, Craig Boutilier, Pieter Abbeel, Mohammad Ghavamzadeh, Kangwook Lee, Kimin Lee

**Published**: 2023-05-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Learning from human feedback has been shown to improve text-to-image models.
These techniques first learn a reward function that captures what humans care
about in the task and then improve the models based on the learned reward
function. Even though relatively simple approaches (e.g., rejection sampling
based on reward scores) have been investigated, fine-tuning text-to-image
models with the reward function remains challenging. In this work, we propose
using online reinforcement learning (RL) to fine-tune text-to-image models. We
focus on diffusion models, defining the fine-tuning task as an RL problem, and
updating the pre-trained text-to-image diffusion models using policy gradient
to maximize the feedback-trained reward. Our approach, coined DPOK, integrates
policy optimization with KL regularization. We conduct an analysis of KL
regularization for both RL fine-tuning and supervised fine-tuning. In our
experiments, we show that DPOK is generally superior to supervised fine-tuning
with respect to both image-text alignment and image quality.

---

## 7. [Role-Play with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16367)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16367](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16367)

**Authors**: Murray Shanahan, Kyle McDonell, Laria Reynolds

**Published**: 2023-05-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

As dialogue agents become increasingly human-like in their performance, it is
imperative that we develop effective ways to describe their behaviour in
high-level terms without falling into the trap of anthropomorphism. In this
paper, we foreground the concept of role-play. Casting dialogue agent behaviour
in terms of role-play allows us to draw on familiar folk psychological terms,
without ascribing human characteristics to language models they in fact lack.
Two important cases of dialogue agent behaviour are addressed this way, namely
(apparent) deception and (apparent) self-awareness.

---

## 8. [PandaGPT: One Model To Instruction-Follow Them All](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16355)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16355](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16355)

**Authors**: Yixuan Su, Tian Lan, Huayang Li, Jialu Xu, Yan Wang, Deng Cai

**Published**: 2023-05-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yxuansu/pandagpt)

### Abstract

We present PandaGPT, an approach to emPower large lANguage moDels with visual
and Auditory instruction-following capabilities. Our pilot experiments show
that PandaGPT can perform complex tasks such as detailed image description
generation, writing stories inspired by videos, and answering questions about
audios. More interestingly, PandaGPT can take multimodal inputs simultaneously
and compose their semantics naturally. For example, PandaGPT can connect how
objects look in an image/video and how they sound in an audio. To do so,
PandaGPT combines the multimodal encoders from ImageBind and the large language
models from Vicuna. Notably, only aligned image-text pairs are required for the
training of PandaGPT. Thanks to the strong capability of ImageBind in embedding
data from different modalities into the same space, PandaGPT displays emergent,
i.e. zero-shot, cross-modal behaviors for data other than image and text (e.g.,
video, audio, depth, thermal, and IMU). We hope that PandaGPT serves as an
initial step toward building AGI that can perceive and understand inputs in
different modalities holistically, as we humans do. Our project page is at
https://panda-gpt.github.io/.

---

## 9. [Think Before You Act: Decision Transformers with Internal Working Memory](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16338)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16338](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16338)

**Authors**: Jikun Kang, Romain Laroche, Xindi Yuan, Adam Trischler, Xue Liu, Jie Fu

**Published**: 2023-05-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/luciferkonn/dt_mem)

### Abstract

Large language model (LLM)-based decision-making agents have shown the
ability to generalize across multiple tasks. However, their performance relies
on massive data and compute. We argue that this inefficiency stems from the
forgetting phenomenon, in which a model memorizes its behaviors in parameters
throughout training. As a result, training on a new task may deteriorate the
model's performance on previous tasks. In contrast to LLMs' implicit memory
mechanism, the human brain utilizes distributed memory storage, which helps
manage and organize multiple skills efficiently, mitigating the forgetting
phenomenon. Thus inspired, we propose an internal working memory module to
store, blend, and retrieve information for different downstream tasks.
Evaluation results show that the proposed method improves training efficiency
and generalization in both Atari games and meta-world object manipulation
tasks. Moreover, we demonstrate that memory fine-tuning further enhances the
adaptability of the proposed architecture.

---

## 10. [Mindstorms in Natural Language-Based Societies of Mind](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.17066)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.17066](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.17066)

**Authors**: Mingchen Zhuge, Haozhe Liu, Francesco Faccio, Dylan R. Ashley, Róbert Csordás, Anand Gopalakrishnan, Abdullah Hamdi, Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud, Vincent Herrmann, Kazuki Irie, Louis Kirsch, Bing Li, Guohao Li, Shuming Liu, Jinjie Mai, Piotr Piękos, Aditya Ramesh, Imanol Schlag, Weimin Shi, Aleksandar Stanić, Wenyi Wang, Yuhui Wang, Mengmeng Xu, Deng-Ping Fan, Bernard Ghanem, Jürgen Schmidhuber

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Both Minsky's "society of mind" and Schmidhuber's "learning to think" inspire
diverse societies of large multimodal neural networks (NNs) that solve problems
by interviewing each other in a "mindstorm." Recent implementations of NN-based
societies of minds consist of large language models (LLMs) and other NN-based
experts communicating through a natural language interface. In doing so, they
overcome the limitations of single LLMs, improving multimodal zero-shot
reasoning. In these natural language-based societies of mind (NLSOMs), new
agents -- all communicating through the same universal symbolic language -- are
easily added in a modular fashion. To demonstrate the power of NLSOMs, we
assemble and experiment with several of them (having up to 129 members),
leveraging mindstorms in them to solve some practical AI tasks: visual question
answering, image captioning, text-to-image synthesis, 3D generation, egocentric
retrieval, embodied AI, and general language-based task solving. We view this
as a starting point towards much larger NLSOMs with billions of agents-some of
which may be humans. And with this emergence of great societies of
heterogeneous minds, many new research questions have suddenly become paramount
to the future of artificial intelligence. What should be the social structure
of an NLSOM? What would be the (dis)advantages of having a monarchical rather
than a democratic structure? How can principles of NN economies be used to
maximize the total reward of a reinforcement learning NLSOM? In this work, we
identify, discuss, and try to answer some of these questions.

---

## 11. [Three Towers: Flexible Contrastive Learning with Pretrained Image Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16999)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16999](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16999)

**Authors**: Jannik Kossen, Mark Collier, Basil Mustafa, Xiao Wang, Xiaohua Zhai, Lucas Beyer, Andreas Steiner, Jesse Berent, Rodolphe Jenatton, Efi Kokiopoulou

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

We introduce Three Towers (3T), a flexible method to improve the contrastive
learning of vision-language models by incorporating pretrained image
classifiers. While contrastive models are usually trained from scratch, LiT
(Zhai et al., 2022) has recently shown performance gains from using pretrained
classifier embeddings. However, LiT directly replaces the image tower with the
frozen embeddings, excluding any potential benefits of contrastively training
the image tower. With 3T, we propose a more flexible strategy that allows the
image tower to benefit from both pretrained embeddings and contrastive
training. To achieve this, we introduce a third tower that contains the frozen
pretrained embeddings, and we encourage alignment between this third tower and
the main image-text towers. Empirically, 3T consistently improves over LiT and
the CLIP-style from-scratch baseline for retrieval tasks. For classification,
3T reliably improves over the from-scratch baseline, and while it underperforms
relative to LiT for JFT-pretrained models, it outperforms LiT for ImageNet-21k
and Places365 pretraining.

---

## 12. [MixCE: Training Autoregressive Language Models by Mixing Forward and
  Reverse Cross-Entropies](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16958)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16958](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16958)

**Authors**: Shiyue Zhang, Shijie Wu, Ozan Irsoy, Steven Lu, Mohit Bansal, Mark Dredze, David Rosenberg

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bloomberg/mixce-acl2023)

### Abstract

Autoregressive language models are trained by minimizing the cross-entropy of
the model distribution Q relative to the data distribution P -- that is,
minimizing the forward cross-entropy, which is equivalent to maximum likelihood
estimation (MLE). We have observed that models trained in this way may
"over-generalize", in the sense that they produce non-human-like text.
Moreover, we believe that reverse cross-entropy, i.e., the cross-entropy of P
relative to Q, is a better reflection of how a human would evaluate text
generated by a model. Hence, we propose learning with MixCE, an objective that
mixes the forward and reverse cross-entropies. We evaluate models trained with
this objective on synthetic data settings (where P is known) and real data, and
show that the resulting models yield better generated text without complex
decoding strategies. Our code and models are publicly available at
https://github.com/bloomberg/mixce-acl2023

---

## 13. [Playing repeated games with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16867)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16867](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16867)

**Authors**: Elif Akata, Lion Schulz, Julian Coda-Forno, Seong Joon Oh, Matthias Bethge, Eric Schulz

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) are transforming society and permeating into
diverse applications. As a result, LLMs will frequently interact with us and
other agents. It is, therefore, of great societal value to understand how LLMs
behave in interactive social settings. Here, we propose to use behavioral game
theory to study LLM's cooperation and coordination behavior. To do so, we let
different LLMs (GPT-3, GPT-3.5, and GPT-4) play finitely repeated games with
each other and with other, human-like strategies. Our results show that LLMs
generally perform well in such tasks and also uncover persistent behavioral
signatures. In a large set of two players-two strategies games, we find that
LLMs are particularly good at games where valuing their own self-interest pays
off, like the iterated Prisoner's Dilemma family. However, they behave
sub-optimally in games that require coordination. We, therefore, further focus
on two games from these distinct families. In the canonical iterated Prisoner's
Dilemma, we find that GPT-4 acts particularly unforgivingly, always defecting
after another agent has defected only once. In the Battle of the Sexes, we find
that GPT-4 cannot match the behavior of the simple convention to alternate
between options. We verify that these behavioral signatures are stable across
robustness checks. Finally, we show how GPT-4's behavior can be modified by
providing further information about the other player as well as by asking it to
predict the other player's actions before making a choice. These results enrich
our understanding of LLM's social behavior and pave the way for a behavioral
game theory for machines.

---

## 14. [Randomized Positional Encodings Boost Length Generalization of
  Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16843)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16843](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16843)

**Authors**: Anian Ruoss, Grégoire Delétang, Tim Genewein, Jordi Grau-Moya, Róbert Csordás, Mehdi Bennani, Shane Legg, Joel Veness

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/deepmind/randomized_positional_encodings)

### Abstract

Transformers have impressive generalization capabilities on tasks with a
fixed context length. However, they fail to generalize to sequences of
arbitrary length, even for seemingly simple tasks such as duplicating a string.
Moreover, simply training on longer sequences is inefficient due to the
quadratic computation complexity of the global attention mechanism. In this
work, we demonstrate that this failure mode is linked to positional encodings
being out-of-distribution for longer sequences (even for relative encodings)
and introduce a novel family of positional encodings that can overcome this
problem. Concretely, our randomized positional encoding scheme simulates the
positions of longer sequences and randomly selects an ordered subset to fit the
sequence's length. Our large-scale empirical evaluation of 6000 models across
15 algorithmic reasoning tasks shows that our method allows Transformers to
generalize to sequences of unseen length (increasing test accuracy by 12.0% on
average).

---

## 15. [Lexinvariant Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16349)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16349](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16349)

**Authors**: Qian Huang, Eric Zelikman, Sarah Li Chen, Yuhuai Wu, Gregory Valiant, Percy Liang

**Published**: 2023-05-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Token embeddings, a mapping from discrete lexical symbols to continuous
vectors, are at the heart of any language model (LM). However, lexical symbol
meanings can also be determined and even redefined by their structural role in
a long context. In this paper, we ask: is it possible for a language model to
be performant without any fixed token embeddings? Such a language model
would have to rely entirely on the co-occurence and repetition of tokens in the
context rather than the a priori identity of any token. To answer
this, we study lexinvariantlanguage models that are invariant to
lexical symbols and therefore do not need fixed token embeddings in practice.
First, we prove that we can construct a lexinvariant LM to converge to the true
language model at a uniform rate that is polynomial in terms of the context
length, with a constant factor that is sublinear in the vocabulary size.
Second, to build a lexinvariant LM, we simply encode tokens using random
Gaussian vectors, such that each token maps to the same representation within
each sequence but different representations across sequences. Empirically, we
demonstrate that it can indeed attain perplexity comparable to that of a
standard language model, given a sufficiently long context. We further explore
two properties of the lexinvariant language models: First, given text generated
from a substitution cipher of English, it implicitly implements Bayesian
in-context deciphering and infers the mapping to the underlying real tokens
with high accuracy. Second, it has on average 4X better accuracy over synthetic
in-context reasoning tasks. Finally, we discuss regularizing standard language
models towards lexinvariance and potential practical applications.

---

## 16. [Do GPTs Produce Less Literal Translations?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16806)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16806](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16806)

**Authors**: Vikas Raunak, Arul Menezes, Matt Post, Hany Hassan Awadallah

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vyraun/literalness)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-3 have emerged as general-purpose
language models capable of addressing many natural language generation or
understanding tasks. On the task of Machine Translation (MT), multiple works
have investigated few-shot prompting mechanisms to elicit better translations
from LLMs. However, there has been relatively little investigation on how such
translations differ qualitatively from the translations generated by standard
Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models. In this work, we investigate these
differences in terms of the literalness of translations produced by the two
systems. Using literalness measures involving word alignment and monotonicity,
we find that translations out of English (E-X) from GPTs tend to be less
literal, while exhibiting similar or better scores on MT quality metrics. We
demonstrate that this finding is borne out in human evaluations as well. We
then show that these differences are especially pronounced when translating
sentences that contain idiomatic expressions.

---

## 17. [Backpack Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16765)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16765](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16765)

**Authors**: John Hewitt, John Thickstun, Christopher D. Manning, Percy Liang

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

We present Backpacks: a new neural architecture that marries strong modeling
performance with an interface for interpretability and control. Backpacks learn
multiple non-contextual sense vectors for each word in a vocabulary, and
represent a word in a sequence as a context-dependent, non-negative linear
combination of sense vectors in this sequence. We find that, after training,
sense vectors specialize, each encoding a different aspect of a word. We can
interpret a sense vector by inspecting its (non-contextual, linear) projection
onto the output space, and intervene on these interpretable hooks to change the
model's behavior in predictable ways. We train a 170M-parameter Backpack
language model on OpenWebText, matching the loss of a GPT-2 small
(124Mparameter) Transformer. On lexical similarity evaluations, we find that
Backpack sense vectors outperform even a 6B-parameter Transformer LM's word
embeddings. Finally, we present simple algorithms that intervene on sense
vectors to perform controllable text generation and debiasing. For example, we
can edit the sense vocabulary to tend more towards a topic, or localize a
source of gender bias to a sense vector and globally suppress that sense.

---

## 18. [A Closer Look at In-Context Learning under Distribution Shifts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16704)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16704](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16704)

**Authors**: Kartik Ahuja, David Lopez-Paz

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/iclmlp)

### Abstract

In-context learning, a capability that enables a model to learn from input
examples on the fly without necessitating weight updates, is a defining
characteristic of large language models. In this work, we follow the setting
proposed in (Garg et al., 2022) to better understand the generality and
limitations of in-context learning from the lens of the simple yet fundamental
task of linear regression. The key question we aim to address is: Are
transformers more adept than some natural and simpler architectures at
performing in-context learning under varying distribution shifts? To compare
transformers, we propose to use a simple architecture based on set-based
Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLPs). We find that both transformers and set-based
MLPs exhibit in-context learning under in-distribution evaluations, but
transformers more closely emulate the performance of ordinary least squares
(OLS). Transformers also display better resilience to mild distribution shifts,
where set-based MLPs falter. However, under severe distribution shifts, both
models' in-context learning abilities diminish.

---

## 19. [Impossible Distillation: from Low-Quality Model to High-Quality Dataset
  & Model for Summarization and Paraphrasing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16635)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16635](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16635)

**Authors**: Jaehun Jung, Peter West, Liwei Jiang, Faeze Brahman, Ximing Lu, Jillian Fisher, Taylor Sorensen, Yejin Choi

**Published**: 2023-05-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

It is commonly perceived that the strongest language models (LMs) rely on a
combination of massive scale, instruction data, and human feedback to perform
specialized tasks -- e.g. summarization and paraphrasing, without supervision.
In this paper, we propose that language models can learn to summarize and
paraphrase sentences, with none of these 3 factors. We present Impossible
Distillation, a framework that distills a task-specific dataset directly from
an off-the-shelf LM, even when it is impossible for the LM itself to reliably
solve the task. By training a student model on the generated dataset and
amplifying its capability through self-distillation, our method yields a
high-quality model and dataset from a low-quality teacher model, without the
need for scale or supervision. Using Impossible Distillation, we are able to
distill an order of magnitude smaller model (with only 770M parameters) that
outperforms 175B parameter GPT-3, in both quality and controllability, as
confirmed by automatic and human evaluations. Furthermore, as a useful
byproduct of our approach, we obtain DIMSUM+, a high-quality dataset with 3.4M
sentence summaries and paraphrases. Our analyses show that this dataset, as a
purely LM-generated corpus, is more diverse and more effective for
generalization to unseen domains than all human-authored datasets -- including
Gigaword with 4M samples.

---

## 20. [ZeroAvatar: Zero-shot 3D Avatar Generation from a Single Image](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16411)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16411](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16411)

**Authors**: Zhenzhen Weng, Zeyu Wang, Serena Yeung

**Published**: 2023-05-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Recent advancements in text-to-image generation have enabled significant
progress in zero-shot 3D shape generation. This is achieved by score
distillation, a methodology that uses pre-trained text-to-image diffusion
models to optimize the parameters of a 3D neural presentation, e.g. Neural
Radiance Field (NeRF). While showing promising results, existing methods are
often not able to preserve the geometry of complex shapes, such as human
bodies. To address this challenge, we present ZeroAvatar, a method that
introduces the explicit 3D human body prior to the optimization process.
Specifically, we first estimate and refine the parameters of a parametric human
body from a single image. Then during optimization, we use the posed parametric
body as additional geometry constraint to regularize the diffusion model as
well as the underlying density field. Lastly, we propose a UV-guided texture
regularization term to further guide the completion of texture on invisible
body parts. We show that ZeroAvatar significantly enhances the robustness and
3D consistency of optimization-based image-to-3D avatar generation,
outperforming existing zero-shot image-to-3D methods.

---

## 21. [OlaGPT: Empowering LLMs With Human-like Problem-Solving Abilities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.16334)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.16334](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16334)

**Authors**: Yuanzhen Xie, Tao Xie, Mingxiong Lin, WenTao Wei, Chenglin Li, Beibei Kong, Lei Chen, Chengxiang Zhuo, Bo Hu, Zang Li

**Published**: 2023-05-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

In most current research, large language models (LLMs) are able to perform
reasoning tasks by generating chains of thought through the guidance of
specific prompts. However, there still exists a significant discrepancy between
their capability in solving complex reasoning problems and that of humans. At
present, most approaches focus on chains of thought (COT) and tool use, without
considering the adoption and application of human cognitive frameworks. It is
well-known that when confronting complex reasoning challenges, humans typically
employ various cognitive abilities, and necessitate interaction with all
aspects of tools, knowledge, and the external environment information to
accomplish intricate tasks. This paper introduces a novel intelligent
framework, referred to as OlaGPT. OlaGPT carefully studied a cognitive
architecture framework, and propose to simulate certain aspects of human
cognition. The framework involves approximating different cognitive modules,
including attention, memory, reasoning, learning, and corresponding scheduling
and decision-making mechanisms. Inspired by the active learning mechanism of
human beings, it proposes a learning unit to record previous mistakes and
expert opinions, and dynamically refer to them to strengthen their ability to
solve similar problems. The paper also outlines common effective reasoning
frameworks for human problem-solving and designs Chain-of-Thought (COT)
templates accordingly. A comprehensive decision-making mechanism is also
proposed to maximize model accuracy. The efficacy of OlaGPT has been
stringently evaluated on multiple reasoning datasets, and the experimental
outcomes reveal that OlaGPT surpasses state-of-the-art benchmarks,
demonstrating its superior performance. Our implementation of OlaGPT is
available on GitHub: https://github.com/oladata-team/OlaGPT.

---
