# Daily Papers - 2023-05-09

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-09)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [FrugalGPT: How to Use Large Language Models While Reducing Cost and
  Improving Performance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05176)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05176](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05176)

**Authors**: Lingjiao Chen, Matei Zaharia, James Zou

**Published**: 2023-05-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/stanford-futuredata/frugalgpt)

### Abstract

There is a rapidly growing number of large language models (LLMs) that users
can query for a fee. We review the cost associated with querying popular LLM
APIs, e.g. GPT-4, ChatGPT, J1-Jumbo, and find that these models have
heterogeneous pricing structures, with fees that can differ by two orders of
magnitude. In particular, using LLMs on large collections of queries and text
can be expensive. Motivated by this, we outline and discuss three types of
strategies that users can exploit to reduce the inference cost associated with
using LLMs: 1) prompt adaptation, 2) LLM approximation, and 3) LLM cascade. As
an example, we propose FrugalGPT, a simple yet flexible instantiation of LLM
cascade which learns which combinations of LLMs to use for different queries in
order to reduce cost and improve accuracy. Our experiments show that FrugalGPT
can match the performance of the best individual LLM (e.g. GPT-4) with up to
98% cost reduction or improve the accuracy over GPT-4 by 4% with the same cost.
The ideas and findings presented here lay a foundation for using LLMs
sustainably and efficiently.

---

## 2. [Towards Building the Federated GPT: Federated Instruction Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05644)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05644](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05644)

**Authors**: Jianyi Zhang, Saeed Vahidian, Martin Kuo, Chunyuan Li, Ruiyi Zhang, Guoyin Wang, Yiran Chen

**Published**: 2023-05-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jayzhang42/federatedgpt-shepherd)

### Abstract

While ``instruction-tuned" generative large language models (LLMs) have
demonstrated an impressive ability to generalize to new tasks, the training
phases heavily rely on large amounts of diverse and high-quality instruction
data (such as ChatGPT and GPT-4). Unfortunately, acquiring high-quality data,
especially when it comes to human-written data, can pose significant challenges
both in terms of cost and accessibility. Moreover, concerns related to privacy
can further limit access to such data, making the process of obtaining it a
complex and nuanced undertaking. Consequently, this hinders the generality of
the tuned models and may restrict their effectiveness in certain contexts. To
tackle this issue, our study introduces a new approach called Federated
Instruction Tuning (FedIT), which leverages federated learning (FL) as the
learning framework for the instruction tuning of LLMs. This marks the first
exploration of FL-based instruction tuning for LLMs. This is especially
important since text data is predominantly generated by end users. Therefore,
it is imperative to design and adapt FL approaches to effectively leverage
these users' diverse instructions stored on local devices, while preserving
privacy and ensuring data security. In the current paper, by conducting widely
used GPT-4 auto-evaluation, we demonstrate that by exploiting the heterogeneous
and diverse sets of instructions on the client's end with the proposed
framework FedIT, we improved the performance of LLMs compared to centralized
training with only limited local instructions. Further, in this paper, we
developed a Github repository named Shepherd. This repository offers a
foundational framework for exploring federated fine-tuning of LLMs using
heterogeneous instructions across diverse categories.

---

## 3. [InternChat: Solving Vision-Centric Tasks by Interacting with Chatbots
  Beyond Language](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05662)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05662](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05662)

**Authors**: Zhaoyang Liu, Yinan He, Wenhai Wang, Weiyun Wang, Yi Wang, Shoufa Chen, Qinglong Zhang, Yang Yang, Qingyun Li, Jiashuo Yu, Kunchang Li, Zhe Chen, Xue Yang, Xizhou Zhu, Yali Wang, Limin Wang, Ping Luo, Jifeng Dai, Yu Qiao

**Published**: 2023-05-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OpenGVLab/InternChat)

### Abstract

We present an interactive visual framework named InternChat, or iChat for
short. The framework integrates chatbots that have planning and reasoning
capabilities, such as ChatGPT, with non-verbal instructions like pointing
movements that enable users to directly manipulate images or videos on the
screen. Pointing (including gestures, cursors, etc.) movements can provide more
flexibility and precision in performing vision-centric tasks that require
fine-grained control, editing, and generation of visual content. The name
InternChat stands for interaction, nonverbal, and chatbots. Different from
existing interactive systems that rely on pure language, by incorporating
pointing instructions, the proposed iChat significantly improves the efficiency
of communication between users and chatbots, as well as the accuracy of
chatbots in vision-centric tasks, especially in complicated visual scenarios
where the number of objects is greater than 2. Additionally, in iChat, an
auxiliary control mechanism is used to improve the control capability of LLM,
and a large vision-language model termed Husky is fine-tuned for high-quality
multi-modal dialogue (impressing ChatGPT-3.5-turbo with 93.89% GPT-4 Quality).
We hope this work can spark new ideas and directions for future interactive
visual systems. Welcome to watch the code at
https://github.com/OpenGVLab/InternChat.

---

## 4. [SUR-adapter: Enhancing Text-to-Image Pre-trained Diffusion Models with
  Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05189)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05189](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05189)

**Authors**: Shanshan Zhong, Zhongzhan Huang, Wushao Wen, Jinghui Qin, Liang Lin

**Published**: 2023-05-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Qrange-group/SUR-adapter)

### Abstract

Diffusion models, which have emerged to become popular text-to-image
generation models, can produce high-quality and content-rich images guided by
textual prompts. However, there are limitations to semantic understanding and
commonsense reasoning in existing models when the input prompts are concise
narrative, resulting in low-quality image generation. To improve the capacities
for narrative prompts, we propose a simple-yet-effective parameter-efficient
fine-tuning approach called the Semantic Understanding and Reasoning adapter
(SUR-adapter) for pre-trained diffusion models. To reach this goal, we first
collect and annotate a new dataset SURD which consists of more than 57,000
semantically corrected multi-modal samples. Each sample contains a simple
narrative prompt, a complex keyword-based prompt, and a high-quality image.
Then, we align the semantic representation of narrative prompts to the complex
prompts and transfer knowledge of large language models (LLMs) to our
SUR-adapter via knowledge distillation so that it can acquire the powerful
semantic understanding and reasoning capabilities to build a high-quality
textual semantic representation for text-to-image generation. We conduct
experiments by integrating multiple LLMs and popular pre-trained diffusion
models to show the effectiveness of our approach in enabling diffusion models
to understand and reason concise natural language without image quality
degradation. Our approach can make text-to-image diffusion models easier to use
with better user experience, which demonstrates our approach has the potential
for further advancing the development of user-friendly text-to-image generation
models by bridging the semantic gap between simple narrative prompts and
complex keyword-based prompts.

---

## 5. [Plan-and-Solve Prompting: Improving Zero-Shot Chain-of-Thought Reasoning
  by Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04091)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04091](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04091)

**Authors**: Lei Wang, Wanyu Xu, Yihuai Lan, Zhiqiang Hu, Yunshi Lan, Roy Ka-Wei Lee, Ee-Peng Lim

**Published**: 2023-05-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/agi-edgerunners/plan-and-solve-prompting)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have recently been shown to deliver impressive
performance in various NLP tasks. To tackle multi-step reasoning tasks,
few-shot chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting includes a few manually crafted
step-by-step reasoning demonstrations which enable LLMs to explicitly generate
reasoning steps and improve their reasoning task accuracy. To eliminate the
manual effort, Zero-shot-CoT concatenates the target problem statement with
"Let's think step by step" as an input prompt to LLMs. Despite the success of
Zero-shot-CoT, it still suffers from three pitfalls: calculation errors,
missing-step errors, and semantic misunderstanding errors. To address the
missing-step errors, we propose Plan-and-Solve (PS) Prompting. It consists of
two components: first, devising a plan to divide the entire task into smaller
subtasks, and then carrying out the subtasks according to the plan. To address
the calculation errors and improve the quality of generated reasoning steps, we
extend PS prompting with more detailed instructions and derive PS+ prompting.
We evaluate our proposed prompting strategy on ten datasets across three
reasoning problems. The experimental results over GPT-3 show that our proposed
zero-shot prompting consistently outperforms Zero-shot-CoT across all datasets
by a large margin, is comparable to or exceeds Zero-shot-Program-of-Thought
Prompting, and has comparable performance with 8-shot CoT prompting on the math
reasoning problem. The code can be found at
https://github.com/AGI-Edgerunners/Plan-and-Solve-Prompting.

---

## 6. [Residual Prompt Tuning: Improving Prompt Tuning with Residual
  Reparameterization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03937)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03937](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03937)

**Authors**: Anastasia Razdaibiedina, Yuning Mao, Rui Hou, Madian Khabsa, Mike Lewis, Jimmy Ba, Amjad Almahairi

**Published**: 2023-05-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/arazd/residualprompts)

### Abstract

Prompt tuning is one of the successful approaches for parameter-efficient
tuning of pre-trained language models. Despite being arguably the most
parameter-efficient (tuned soft prompts constitute <0.1% of total parameters),
it typically performs worse than other efficient tuning methods and is quite
sensitive to hyper-parameters. In this work, we introduce Residual Prompt
Tuning - a simple and efficient method that significantly improves the
performance and stability of prompt tuning. We propose to reparameterize soft
prompt embeddings using a shallow network with a residual connection. Our
experiments show that Residual Prompt Tuning significantly outperforms prompt
tuning on SuperGLUE benchmark. Notably, our method reaches +7 points
improvement over prompt tuning with T5-Base and allows to reduce the prompt
length by 10x without hurting performance. In addition, we show that our
approach is robust to the choice of learning rate and prompt initialization,
and is effective in few-shot settings.

---

## 7. [MultiModal-GPT: A Vision and Language Model for Dialogue with Humans](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04790)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04790](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04790)

**Authors**: Tao Gong, Chengqi Lyu, Shilong Zhang, Yudong Wang, Miao Zheng, Qian Zhao, Kuikun Liu, Wenwei Zhang, Ping Luo, Kai Chen

**Published**: 2023-05-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/open-mmlab/Multimodal-GPT)

### Abstract

We present a vision and language model named MultiModal-GPT to conduct
multi-round dialogue with humans. MultiModal-GPT can follow various
instructions from humans, such as generating a detailed caption, counting the
number of interested objects, and answering general questions from users.
MultiModal-GPT is parameter-efficiently fine-tuned from OpenFlamingo, with
Low-rank Adapter (LoRA) added both in the cross-attention part and the
self-attention part of the language model. We first construct instruction
templates with vision and language data for multi-modality instruction tuning
to make the model understand and follow human instructions. We find the quality
of training data is vital for the dialogue performance, where few data
containing short answers can lead the model to respond shortly to any
instructions. To further enhance the ability to chat with humans of the
MultiModal-GPT, we utilize language-only instruction-following data to train
the MultiModal-GPT jointly. The joint training of language-only and
visual-language instructions with the same instruction template
effectively improves dialogue performance. Various demos show the ability of
continuous dialogue of MultiModal-GPT with humans. Code and demo are at
https://github.com/open-mmlab/Multimodal-GPT

---

## 8. [AvatarReX: Real-time Expressive Full-body Avatars](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04789)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04789](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04789)

**Authors**: Zerong Zheng, Xiaochen Zhao, Hongwen Zhang, Boning Liu, Yebin Liu

**Published**: 2023-05-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

We present AvatarReX, a new method for learning NeRF-based full-body avatars
from video data. The learnt avatar not only provides expressive control of the
body, hands and the face together, but also supports real-time animation and
rendering. To this end, we propose a compositional avatar representation, where
the body, hands and the face are separately modeled in a way that the
structural prior from parametric mesh templates is properly utilized without
compromising representation flexibility. Furthermore, we disentangle the
geometry and appearance for each part. With these technical designs, we propose
a dedicated deferred rendering pipeline, which can be executed in real-time
framerate to synthesize high-quality free-view images. The disentanglement of
geometry and appearance also allows us to design a two-pass training strategy
that combines volume rendering and surface rendering for network training. In
this way, patch-level supervision can be applied to force the network to learn
sharp appearance details on the basis of geometry estimation. Overall, our
method enables automatic construction of expressive full-body avatars with
real-time rendering capability, and can generate photo-realistic images with
dynamic details for novel body motions and facial expressions.

---

## 9. [Language Models Don't Always Say What They Think: Unfaithful
  Explanations in Chain-of-Thought Prompting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04388)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04388](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04388)

**Authors**: Miles Turpin, Julian Michael, Ethan Perez, Samuel R. Bowman

**Published**: 2023-05-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/milesaturpin/cot-unfaithfulness)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) can achieve strong performance on many tasks by
producing step-by-step reasoning before giving a final output, often referred
to as chain-of-thought reasoning (CoT). It is tempting to interpret these CoT
explanations as the LLM's process for solving a task. However, we find that CoT
explanations can systematically misrepresent the true reason for a model's
prediction. We demonstrate that CoT explanations can be heavily influenced by
adding biasing features to model inputs -- e.g., by reordering the
multiple-choice options in a few-shot prompt to make the answer always "(A)" --
which models systematically fail to mention in their explanations. When we bias
models toward incorrect answers, they frequently generate CoT explanations
supporting those answers. This causes accuracy to drop by as much as 36% on a
suite of 13 tasks from BIG-Bench Hard, when testing with GPT-3.5 from OpenAI
and Claude 1.0 from Anthropic. On a social-bias task, model explanations
justify giving answers in line with stereotypes without mentioning the
influence of these social biases. Our findings indicate that CoT explanations
can be plausible yet misleading, which risks increasing our trust in LLMs
without guaranteeing their safety. CoT is promising for explainability, but our
results highlight the need for targeted efforts to evaluate and improve
explanation faithfulness.

---

## 10. [Multi-Space Neural Radiance Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04268)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04268](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04268)

**Authors**: Ze-Xin Yin, Jiaxiong Qiu, Ming-Ming Cheng, Bo Ren

**Published**: 2023-05-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ZX-Yin/ms-nerf) | [Project Page](https://zx-yin.github.io/msnerf/)

### Abstract

Existing Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) methods suffer from the existence of
reflective objects, often resulting in blurry or distorted rendering. Instead
of calculating a single radiance field, we propose a multi-space neural
radiance field (MS-NeRF) that represents the scene using a group of feature
fields in parallel sub-spaces, which leads to a better understanding of the
neural network toward the existence of reflective and refractive objects. Our
multi-space scheme works as an enhancement to existing NeRF methods, with only
small computational overheads needed for training and inferring the extra-space
outputs. We demonstrate the superiority and compatibility of our approach using
three representative NeRF-based models, i.e., NeRF, Mip-NeRF, and Mip-NeRF 360.
Comparisons are performed on a novelly constructed dataset consisting of 25
synthetic scenes and 7 real captured scenes with complex reflection and
refraction, all having 360-degree viewpoints. Extensive experiments show that
our approach significantly outperforms the existing single-space NeRF methods
for rendering high-quality scenes concerned with complex light paths through
mirror-like objects. Our code and dataset will be publicly available at
https://zx-yin.github.io/msnerf.

---

## 11. [Vcc: Scaling Transformers to 128K Tokens or More by Prioritizing
  Important Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04241)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04241](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04241)

**Authors**: Zhanpeng Zeng, Cole Hawkins, Mingyi Hong, Aston Zhang, Nikolaos Pappas, Vikas Singh, Shuai Zheng

**Published**: 2023-05-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Transformer models are foundational to natural language processing (NLP) and
computer vision. Despite various recent works devoted to reducing the quadratic
cost of such models (as a function of the sequence length n), dealing with
ultra long sequences efficiently (e.g., with more than 16K tokens) remains
challenging. Applications such as answering questions based on an entire book
or summarizing a scientific article are inefficient or infeasible. In this
paper, we propose to significantly reduce the dependency of a Transformer
model's complexity on n, by compressing the input into a representation whose
size r is independent of n at each layer. Specifically, by exploiting the
fact that in many tasks, only a small subset of special tokens (we call
VIP-tokens) are most relevant to the final prediction, we propose a VIP-token
centric compression (Vcc) scheme which selectively compresses the input
sequence based on their impact on approximating the representation of these
VIP-tokens. Compared with competitive baselines, the proposed algorithm not
only is efficient (achieving more than 3times efficiency improvement
compared to baselines on 4K and 16K lengths), but also achieves competitive or
better performance on a large number of tasks. Further, we show that our
algorithm can be scaled to 128K tokens (or more) while consistently offering
accuracy improvement.

---

## 12. [Pre-training Language Model as a Multi-perspective Course Learner](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03981)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03981](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03981)

**Authors**: Beiduo Chen, Shaohan Huang, Zihan Zhang, Wu Guo, Zhenhua Ling, Haizhen Huang, Furu Wei, Weiwei Deng, Qi Zhang

**Published**: 2023-05-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

ELECTRA, the generator-discriminator pre-training framework, has achieved
impressive semantic construction capability among various downstream tasks.
Despite the convincing performance, ELECTRA still faces the challenges of
monotonous training and deficient interaction. Generator with only masked
language modeling (MLM) leads to biased learning and label imbalance for
discriminator, decreasing learning efficiency; no explicit feedback loop from
discriminator to generator results in the chasm between these two components,
underutilizing the course learning. In this study, a multi-perspective course
learning (MCL) method is proposed to fetch a many degrees and visual angles for
sample-efficient pre-training, and to fully leverage the relationship between
generator and discriminator. Concretely, three self-supervision courses are
designed to alleviate inherent flaws of MLM and balance the label in a
multi-perspective way. Besides, two self-correction courses are proposed to
bridge the chasm between the two encoders by creating a "correction notebook"
for secondary-supervision. Moreover, a course soups trial is conducted to solve
the "tug-of-war" dynamics problem of MCL, evolving a stronger pre-trained
model. Experimental results show that our method significantly improves
ELECTRA's average performance by 2.8% and 3.2% absolute points respectively on
GLUE and SQuAD 2.0 benchmarks, and overshadows recent advanced ELECTRA-style
models under the same settings. The pre-trained MCL model is available at
https://huggingface.co/McmanusChen/MCL-base.

---
