# Daily Papers - 2023-05-07

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-07)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [Can LLM Already Serve as A Database Interface? A BIg Bench for
  Large-Scale Database Grounded Text-to-SQLs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03111)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03111](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03111)

**Authors**: Jinyang Li, Binyuan Hui, Ge Qu, Binhua Li, Jiaxi Yang, Bowen Li, Bailin Wang, Bowen Qin, Rongyu Cao, Ruiying Geng, Nan Huo, Chenhao Ma, Kevin C. C. Chang, Fei Huang, Reynold Cheng, Yongbin Li

**Published**: 2023-05-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bird-bench/mini_dev)

### Abstract

Text-to-SQL parsing, which aims at converting natural language instructions
into executable SQLs, has gained increasing attention in recent years. In
particular, Codex and ChatGPT have shown impressive results in this task.
However, most of the prevalent benchmarks, i.e., Spider, and WikiSQL, focus on
database schema with few rows of database contents leaving the gap between
academic study and real-world applications. To mitigate this gap, we present
Bird, a big benchmark for large-scale database grounded in text-to-SQL tasks,
containing 12,751 pairs of text-to-SQL data and 95 databases with a total size
of 33.4 GB, spanning 37 professional domains. Our emphasis on database values
highlights the new challenges of dirty database contents, external knowledge
between NL questions and database contents, and SQL efficiency, particularly in
the context of massive databases. To solve these problems, text-to-SQL models
must feature database value comprehension in addition to semantic parsing. The
experimental results demonstrate the significance of database values in
generating accurate text-to-SQLs for big databases. Furthermore, even the most
effective text-to-SQL models, i.e. ChatGPT, only achieves 40.08% in execution
accuracy, which is still far from the human result of 92.96%, proving that
challenges still stand. Besides, we also provide an efficiency analysis to
offer insights into generating text-to-efficient-SQLs that are beneficial to
industries. We believe that BIRD will contribute to advancing real-world
applications of text-to-SQL research. The leaderboard and source code are
available: https://bird-bench.github.io/.

---

## 2. [Otter: A Multi-Modal Model with In-Context Instruction Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03726)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03726](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03726)

**Authors**: Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Liangyu Chen, Jinghao Wang, Jingkang Yang, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2023-05-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/luodian/otter)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant universal
capabilities as few/zero-shot learners in various tasks due to their
pre-training on vast amounts of text data, as exemplified by GPT-3, which
boosted to InstrctGPT and ChatGPT, effectively following natural language
instructions to accomplish real-world tasks. In this paper, we propose to
introduce instruction tuning into multi-modal models, motivated by the Flamingo
model's upstream interleaved format pretraining dataset. We adopt a similar
approach to construct our MultI-Modal In-Context Instruction Tuning (MIMIC-IT)
dataset. We then introduce Otter, a multi-modal model based on OpenFlamingo
(open-sourced version of DeepMind's Flamingo), trained on MIMIC-IT and
showcasing improved instruction-following ability and in-context learning. We
also optimize OpenFlamingo's implementation for researchers, democratizing the
required training resources from 1times A100 GPU to 4times RTX-3090 GPUs,
and integrate both OpenFlamingo and Otter into Huggingface Transformers for
more researchers to incorporate the models into their customized training and
inference pipelines.

---

## 3. [Vera: A General-Purpose Plausibility Estimation Model for Commonsense
  Statements](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03695)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03695](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03695)

**Authors**: Jiacheng Liu, Wenya Wang, Dianzhuo Wang, Noah A. Smith, Yejin Choi, Hannaneh Hajishirzi

**Published**: 2023-05-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/liujch1998/vera)

### Abstract

Despite the much discussed capabilities of today's language models, they are
still prone to silly and unexpected commonsense failures. We consider a
retrospective verification approach that reflects on the correctness of LM
outputs, and introduce Vera, a general-purpose model that estimates the
plausibility of declarative statements based on commonsense knowledge. Trained
on ~7M commonsense statements created from 19 QA datasets and two large-scale
knowledge bases, and with a combination of three training objectives, Vera is a
versatile model that effectively separates correct from incorrect statements
across diverse commonsense domains. When applied to solving commonsense
problems in the verification format, Vera substantially outperforms existing
models that can be repurposed for commonsense verification, and it further
exhibits generalization capabilities to unseen tasks and provides
well-calibrated outputs. We find that Vera excels at filtering LM-generated
commonsense knowledge and is useful in detecting erroneous commonsense
statements generated by models like ChatGPT in real-world settings.

---

## 4. [AttentionViz: A Global View of Transformer Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03210)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03210](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03210)

**Authors**: Catherine Yeh, Yida Chen, Aoyu Wu, Cynthia Chen, Fernanda Viégas, Martin Wattenberg

**Published**: 2023-05-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Transformer models are revolutionizing machine learning, but their inner
workings remain mysterious. In this work, we present a new visualization
technique designed to help researchers understand the self-attention mechanism
in transformers that allows these models to learn rich, contextual
relationships between elements of a sequence. The main idea behind our method
is to visualize a joint embedding of the query and key vectors used by
transformer models to compute attention. Unlike previous attention
visualization techniques, our approach enables the analysis of global patterns
across multiple input sequences. We create an interactive visualization tool,
AttentionViz, based on these joint query-key embeddings, and use it to study
attention mechanisms in both language and vision transformers. We demonstrate
the utility of our approach in improving model understanding and offering new
insights about query-key interactions through several application scenarios and
expert feedback.

---

## 5. [Diffusion Explainer: Visual Explanation for Text-to-image Stable
  Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03509)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03509](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03509)

**Authors**: Seongmin Lee, Benjamin Hoover, Hendrik Strobelt, Zijie J. Wang, ShengYun Peng, Austin Wright, Kevin Li, Haekyu Park, Haoyang Yang, Duen Horng Chau

**Published**: 2023-05-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/poloclub/diffusion-explainer)

### Abstract

Diffusion-based generative models' impressive ability to create convincing
images has captured global attention. However, their complex internal
structures and operations often make them difficult for non-experts to
understand. We present Diffusion Explainer, the first interactive visualization
tool that explains how Stable Diffusion transforms text prompts into images.
Diffusion Explainer tightly integrates a visual overview of Stable Diffusion's
complex components with detailed explanations of their underlying operations,
enabling users to fluidly transition between multiple levels of abstraction
through animations and interactive elements. By comparing the evolutions of
image representations guided by two related text prompts over refinement
timesteps, users can discover the impact of prompts on image generation.
Diffusion Explainer runs locally in users' web browsers without the need for
installation or specialized hardware, broadening the public's education access
to modern AI techniques. Our open-sourced tool is available at:
https://poloclub.github.io/diffusion-explainer/.

---

## 6. [Can Large Language Models Transform Computational Social Science?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03514)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03514](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03514)

**Authors**: Caleb Ziems, William Held, Omar Shaikh, Jiaao Chen, Zhehao Zhang, Diyi Yang

**Published**: 2023-04-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/salt-nlp/llms_for_css)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT are capable of successfully
performing many language processing tasks zero-shot (without the need for
training data). If this capacity also applies to the coding of social phenomena
like persuasiveness and political ideology, then LLMs could effectively
transform Computational Social Science (CSS). This work provides a road map for
using LLMs as CSS tools. Towards this end, we contribute a set of prompting
best practices and an extensive evaluation pipeline to measure the zero-shot
performance of 13 language models on 24 representative CSS benchmarks. On
taxonomic labeling tasks (classification), LLMs fail to outperform the best
fine-tuned models but still achieve fair levels of agreement with humans. On
free-form coding tasks (generation), LLMs produce explanations that often
exceed the quality of crowdworkers' gold references. We conclude that today's
LLMs can radically augment the CSS research pipeline in two ways: (1) serving
as zero-shot data annotators on human annotation teams, and (2) bootstrapping
challenging creative generation tasks (e.g., explaining the hidden meaning
behind text). In summary, LLMs can significantly reduce costs and increase
efficiency of social science analysis in partnership with humans.

---

## 7. [Governance of the AI, by the AI, and for the AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03719)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03719](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03719)

**Authors**: Andrew W. Torrance, Bill Tomlinson

**Published**: 2023-05-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 0

### Abstract

Over the past half century, there have been several false dawns during which
the "arrival" of world-changing artificial intelligence (AI) has been heralded.
Tempting fate, the authors believe the age of AI has, indeed, finally arrived.
Powerful image generators, such as DALL-E2 and Midjourney have suddenly allowed
anyone with access the ability easily to create rich and complex art. In a
similar vein, text generators, such as GPT3.5 (including ChatGPT) and BLOOM,
allow users to compose detailed written descriptions of many topics of
interest. And, it is even possible now for a person without extensive expertise
in writing software to use AI to generate code capable of myriad applications.
While AI will continue to evolve and improve, probably at a rapid rate, the
current state of AI is already ushering in profound changes to many different
sectors of society. Every new technology challenges the ability of humanity to
govern it wisely. However, governance is usually viewed as both possible and
necessary due to the disruption new technology often poses to social
structures, industries, the environment, and other important human concerns. In
this article, we offer an analysis of a range of interactions between AI and
governance, with the hope that wise decisions may be made that maximize
benefits and minimize costs. The article addresses two main aspects of this
relationship: the governance of AI by humanity, and the governance of humanity
by AI. The approach we have taken is itself informed by AI, as this article was
written collaboratively by the authors and ChatGPT.

---
