# Daily Papers - 2023-05-16

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-16)

Total papers: 21

---

## 1. [TinyStories: How Small Can Language Models Be and Still Speak Coherent
  English?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.07759)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.07759](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.07759)

**Authors**: Ronen Eldan, Yuanzhi Li

**Published**: 2023-05-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 45

### Abstract

Language models (LMs) are powerful tools for natural language processing, but
they often struggle to produce coherent and fluent text when they are small.
Models with around 125M parameters such as GPT-Neo (small) or GPT-2 (small) can
rarely generate coherent and consistent English text beyond a few words even
after extensive training. This raises the question of whether the emergence of
the ability to produce coherent English text only occurs at larger scales (with
hundreds of millions of parameters or more) and complex architectures (with
many layers of global attention).
  In this work, we introduce TinyStories, a synthetic dataset of short stories
that only contain words that a typical 3 to 4-year-olds usually understand,
generated by GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. We show that TinyStories can be used to train
and evaluate LMs that are much smaller than the state-of-the-art models (below
10 million total parameters), or have much simpler architectures (with only one
transformer block), yet still produce fluent and consistent stories with
several paragraphs that are diverse and have almost perfect grammar, and
demonstrate reasoning capabilities.
  We also introduce a new paradigm for the evaluation of language models: We
suggest a framework which uses GPT-4 to grade the content generated by these
models as if those were stories written by students and graded by a (human)
teacher. This new paradigm overcomes the flaws of standard benchmarks which
often requires the model's output to be very structures, and moreover provides
a multidimensional score for the model, providing scores for different
capabilities such as grammar, creativity and consistency.
  We hope that TinyStories can facilitate the development, analysis and
research of LMs, especially for low-resource or specialized domains, and shed
light on the emergence of language capabilities in LMs.

---

## 2. [SoundStorm: Efficient Parallel Audio Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.09636)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.09636](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.09636)

**Authors**: Zalán Borsos, Matt Sharifi, Damien Vincent, Neil Zeghidour, Marco Tagliasacchi

**Published**: 2023-05-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [Project Page](https://google-research.github.io/seanet/soundstorm/examples/)

### Abstract

We present SoundStorm, a model for efficient, non-autoregressive audio
generation. SoundStorm receives as input the semantic tokens of AudioLM, and
relies on bidirectional attention and confidence-based parallel decoding to
generate the tokens of a neural audio codec. Compared to the autoregressive
generation approach of AudioLM, our model produces audio of the same quality
and with higher consistency in voice and acoustic conditions, while being two
orders of magnitude faster. SoundStorm generates 30 seconds of audio in 0.5
seconds on a TPU-v4. We demonstrate the ability of our model to scale audio
generation to longer sequences by synthesizing high-quality, natural dialogue
segments, given a transcript annotated with speaker turns and a short prompt
with the speakers' voices.

---

## 3. [DarkBERT: A Language Model for the Dark Side of the Internet](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.08596)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.08596](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08596)

**Authors**: Youngjin Jin, Eugene Jang, Jian Cui, Jin-Woo Chung, Yongjae Lee, Seungwon Shin

**Published**: 2023-05-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Recent research has suggested that there are clear differences in the
language used in the Dark Web compared to that of the Surface Web. As studies
on the Dark Web commonly require textual analysis of the domain, language
models specific to the Dark Web may provide valuable insights to researchers.
In this work, we introduce DarkBERT, a language model pretrained on Dark Web
data. We describe the steps taken to filter and compile the text data used to
train DarkBERT to combat the extreme lexical and structural diversity of the
Dark Web that may be detrimental to building a proper representation of the
domain. We evaluate DarkBERT and its vanilla counterpart along with other
widely used language models to validate the benefits that a Dark Web domain
specific model offers in various use cases. Our evaluations show that DarkBERT
outperforms current language models and may serve as a valuable resource for
future research on the Dark Web.

---

## 4. [Towards Expert-Level Medical Question Answering with Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.09617)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.09617](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.09617)

**Authors**: Karan Singhal, Tao Tu, Juraj Gottweis, Rory Sayres, Ellery Wulczyn, Le Hou, Kevin Clark, Stephen Pfohl, Heather Cole-Lewis, Darlene Neal, Mike Schaekermann, Amy Wang, Mohamed Amin, Sami Lachgar, Philip Mansfield, Sushant Prakash, Bradley Green, Ewa Dominowska, Blaise Aguera y Arcas, Nenad Tomasev, Yun Liu, Renee Wong, Christopher Semturs, S. Sara Mahdavi, Joelle Barral, Dale Webster, Greg S. Corrado, Yossi Matias, Shekoofeh Azizi, Alan Karthikesalingam, Vivek Natarajan

**Published**: 2023-05-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Recent artificial intelligence (AI) systems have reached milestones in "grand
challenges" ranging from Go to protein-folding. The capability to retrieve
medical knowledge, reason over it, and answer medical questions comparably to
physicians has long been viewed as one such grand challenge.
  Large language models (LLMs) have catalyzed significant progress in medical
question answering; Med-PaLM was the first model to exceed a "passing" score in
US Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) style questions with a score of 67.2%
on the MedQA dataset. However, this and other prior work suggested significant
room for improvement, especially when models' answers were compared to
clinicians' answers. Here we present Med-PaLM 2, which bridges these gaps by
leveraging a combination of base LLM improvements (PaLM 2), medical domain
finetuning, and prompting strategies including a novel ensemble refinement
approach.
  Med-PaLM 2 scored up to 86.5% on the MedQA dataset, improving upon Med-PaLM
by over 19% and setting a new state-of-the-art. We also observed performance
approaching or exceeding state-of-the-art across MedMCQA, PubMedQA, and MMLU
clinical topics datasets.
  We performed detailed human evaluations on long-form questions along multiple
axes relevant to clinical applications. In pairwise comparative ranking of 1066
consumer medical questions, physicians preferred Med-PaLM 2 answers to those
produced by physicians on eight of nine axes pertaining to clinical utility (p
< 0.001). We also observed significant improvements compared to Med-PaLM on
every evaluation axis (p < 0.001) on newly introduced datasets of 240 long-form
"adversarial" questions to probe LLM limitations.
  While further studies are necessary to validate the efficacy of these models
in real-world settings, these results highlight rapid progress towards
physician-level performance in medical question answering.

---

## 5. [CodeT5+: Open Code Large Language Models for Code Understanding and
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.07922)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.07922](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.07922)

**Authors**: Yue Wang, Hung Le, Akhilesh Deepak Gotmare, Nghi D. Q. Bui, Junnan Li, Steven C. H. Hoi

**Published**: 2023-05-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/salesforce/codet5)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) pretrained on vast source code have achieved
prominent progress in code intelligence. However, existing code LLMs have two
main limitations in terms of architecture and pretraining tasks. First, they
often adopt a specific architecture (encoder-only or decoder-only) or rely on a
unified encoder-decoder network for different downstream tasks. The former
paradigm is limited by inflexibility in applications while in the latter, the
model is treated as a single system for all tasks, leading to suboptimal
performance on a subset of tasks. Secondly, they often employ a limited set of
pretraining objectives which might not be relevant to some downstream tasks and
hence result in substantial performance degrade. To address these limitations,
we propose ``CodeT5+'', a family of encoder-decoder LLMs for code in which
component modules can be flexibly combined to suit a wide range of downstream
code tasks. Such flexibility is enabled by our proposed mixture of pretraining
objectives to mitigate the pretrain-finetune discrepancy. These objectives
cover span denoising, contrastive learning, text-code matching, and causal LM
pretraining tasks, on both unimodal and bimodal multilingual code corpora.
Furthermore, we propose to initialize CodeT5+ with frozen off-the-shelf LLMs
without training from scratch to efficiently scale up our models, and explore
instruction-tuning to align with natural language instructions. We extensively
evaluate CodeT5+ on over 20 code-related benchmarks in different settings,
including zero-shot, finetuning, and instruction-tuning. We observe
state-of-the-art (SoTA) model performance on various code-related tasks, such
as code generation and completion, math programming, and text-to-code retrieval
tasks. Particularly, our instruction-tuned CodeT5+ 16B achieves new SoTA
results on HumanEval code generation task against other open code LLMs.

---

## 6. [Small Models are Valuable Plug-ins for Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.08848)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.08848](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08848)

**Authors**: Canwen Xu, Yichong Xu, Shuohang Wang, Yang Liu, Chenguang Zhu, Julian McAuley

**Published**: 2023-05-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/JetRunner/SuperICL)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-3 and GPT-4 are powerful but their
weights are often publicly unavailable and their immense sizes make the models
difficult to be tuned with common hardware. As a result, effectively tuning
these models with large-scale supervised data can be challenging. As an
alternative, In-Context Learning (ICL) can only use a small number of
supervised examples due to context length limits. In this paper, we propose
Super In-Context Learning (SuperICL) which allows black-box LLMs to work with
locally fine-tuned smaller models, resulting in superior performance on
supervised tasks. Our experiments demonstrate that SuperICL can improve
performance beyond state-of-the-art fine-tuned models while addressing the
instability problem of in-context learning. Furthermore, SuperICL can enhance
the capabilities of smaller models, such as multilinguality and
interpretability.

---

## 7. [Make-An-Animation: Large-Scale Text-conditional 3D Human Motion
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.09662)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.09662](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.09662)

**Authors**: Samaneh Azadi, Akbar Shah, Thomas Hayes, Devi Parikh, Sonal Gupta

**Published**: 2023-05-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/azadis/make-an-animation) | [Project Page](https://azadis.github.io/make-an-animation)

### Abstract

Text-guided human motion generation has drawn significant interest because of
its impactful applications spanning animation and robotics. Recently,
application of diffusion models for motion generation has enabled improvements
in the quality of generated motions. However, existing approaches are limited
by their reliance on relatively small-scale motion capture data, leading to
poor performance on more diverse, in-the-wild prompts. In this paper, we
introduce Make-An-Animation, a text-conditioned human motion generation model
which learns more diverse poses and prompts from large-scale image-text
datasets, enabling significant improvement in performance over prior works.
Make-An-Animation is trained in two stages. First, we train on a curated
large-scale dataset of (text, static pseudo-pose) pairs extracted from
image-text datasets. Second, we fine-tune on motion capture data, adding
additional layers to model the temporal dimension. Unlike prior diffusion
models for motion generation, Make-An-Animation uses a U-Net architecture
similar to recent text-to-video generation models. Human evaluation of motion
realism and alignment with input text shows that our model reaches
state-of-the-art performance on text-to-motion generation.

---

## 8. [AR-Diffusion: Auto-Regressive Diffusion Model for Text Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.09515)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.09515](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.09515)

**Authors**: Tong Wu, Zhihao Fan, Xiao Liu, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Jian Jiao, Hai-Tao Zheng, Juntao Li, Zhongyu Wei, Jian Guo, Nan Duan, Weizhu Chen

**Published**: 2023-05-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Diffusion models have gained significant attention in the realm of image
generation due to their exceptional performance. Their success has been
recently expanded to text generation via generating all tokens within a
sequence concurrently. However, natural language exhibits a far more pronounced
sequential dependency in comparison to images, and the majority of existing
language models are trained utilizing a left-to-right auto-regressive approach.
To account for the inherent sequential characteristic of natural language, we
introduce Auto-Regressive Diffusion (AR-Diffusion). AR-Diffusion ensures that
the generation of tokens on the right depends on the generated ones on the
left, a mechanism achieved through employing a dynamic number of denoising
steps that vary based on token position. This results in tokens on the left
undergoing fewer denoising steps than those on the right, thereby enabling them
to generate earlier and subsequently influence the generation of tokens on the
right. In a series of experiments on various text generation tasks including
text summarization, machine translation, and common sense generation,
AR-Diffusion clearly demonstrated the superiority over existing diffusion
language models and that it can be 100timessim600times faster when
achieving comparable results. Our code will be publicly released.

---

## 9. [Symbol tuning improves in-context learning in language models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.08298)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.08298](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08298)

**Authors**: Jerry Wei, Le Hou, Andrew Lampinen, Xiangning Chen, Da Huang, Yi Tay, Xinyun Chen, Yifeng Lu, Denny Zhou, Tengyu Ma, Quoc V. Le

**Published**: 2023-05-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

We present symbol tuning - finetuning language models on in-context
input-label pairs where natural language labels (e.g., "positive/negative
sentiment") are replaced with arbitrary symbols (e.g., "foo/bar"). Symbol
tuning leverages the intuition that when a model cannot use instructions or
natural language labels to figure out a task, it must instead do so by learning
the input-label mappings.
  We experiment with symbol tuning across Flan-PaLM models up to 540B
parameters and observe benefits across various settings. First, symbol tuning
boosts performance on unseen in-context learning tasks and is much more robust
to underspecified prompts, such as those without instructions or without
natural language labels. Second, symbol-tuned models are much stronger at
algorithmic reasoning tasks, with up to 18.2% better performance on the List
Functions benchmark and up to 15.3% better performance on the Simple Turing
Concepts benchmark. Finally, symbol-tuned models show large improvements in
following flipped-labels presented in-context, meaning that they are more
capable of using in-context information to override prior semantic knowledge.

---

## 10. [Leveraging Large Language Models in Conversational Recommender Systems](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.07961)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.07961](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.07961)

**Authors**: Luke Friedman, Sameer Ahuja, David Allen, Terry Tan, Hakim Sidahmed, Changbo Long, Jun Xie, Gabriel Schubiner, Ajay Patel, Harsh Lara, Brian Chu, Zexi Chen, Manoj Tiwari

**Published**: 2023-05-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

A Conversational Recommender System (CRS) offers increased transparency and
control to users by enabling them to engage with the system through a real-time
multi-turn dialogue. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have exhibited an
unprecedented ability to converse naturally and incorporate world knowledge and
common-sense reasoning into language understanding, unlocking the potential of
this paradigm. However, effectively leveraging LLMs within a CRS introduces new
technical challenges, including properly understanding and controlling a
complex conversation and retrieving from external sources of information. These
issues are exacerbated by a large, evolving item corpus and a lack of
conversational data for training. In this paper, we provide a roadmap for
building an end-to-end large-scale CRS using LLMs. In particular, we propose
new implementations for user preference understanding, flexible dialogue
management and explainable recommendations as part of an integrated
architecture powered by LLMs. For improved personalization, we describe how an
LLM can consume interpretable natural language user profiles and use them to
modulate session-level context. To overcome conversational data limitations in
the absence of an existing production CRS, we propose techniques for building a
controllable LLM-based user simulator to generate synthetic conversations. As a
proof of concept we introduce RecLLM, a large-scale CRS for YouTube videos
built on LaMDA, and demonstrate its fluency and diverse functionality through
some illustrative example conversations.

---

## 11. [Pre-Training to Learn in Context](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.09137)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.09137](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.09137)

**Authors**: Yuxian Gu, Li Dong, Furu Wei, Minlie Huang

**Published**: 2023-05-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thu-coai/picl)

### Abstract

In-context learning, where pre-trained language models learn to perform tasks
from task examples and instructions in their contexts, has attracted much
attention in the NLP community. However, the ability of in-context learning is
not fully exploited because language models are not explicitly trained to learn
in context. To this end, we propose PICL (Pre-training for In-Context
Learning), a framework to enhance the language models' in-context learning
ability by pre-training the model on a large collection of "intrinsic tasks" in
the general plain-text corpus using the simple language modeling objective.
PICL encourages the model to infer and perform tasks by conditioning on the
contexts while maintaining task generalization of pre-trained models. We
evaluate the in-context learning performance of the model trained with PICL on
seven widely-used text classification datasets and the Super-NaturalInstrctions
benchmark, which contains 100+ NLP tasks formulated to text generation. Our
experiments show that PICL is more effective and task-generalizable than a
range of baselines, outperforming larger language models with nearly 4x
parameters. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/thu-coai/PICL.

---

## 12. [AutoRecon: Automated 3D Object Discovery and Reconstruction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.08810)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.08810](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08810)

**Authors**: Yuang Wang, Xingyi He, Sida Peng, Haotong Lin, Hujun Bao, Xiaowei Zhou

**Published**: 2023-05-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zju3dv/AutoRecon) | [Project Page](https://zju3dv.github.io/autorecon/)

### Abstract

A fully automated object reconstruction pipeline is crucial for digital
content creation. While the area of 3D reconstruction has witnessed profound
developments, the removal of background to obtain a clean object model still
relies on different forms of manual labor, such as bounding box labeling, mask
annotations, and mesh manipulations. In this paper, we propose a novel
framework named AutoRecon for the automated discovery and reconstruction of an
object from multi-view images. We demonstrate that foreground objects can be
robustly located and segmented from SfM point clouds by leveraging
self-supervised 2D vision transformer features. Then, we reconstruct decomposed
neural scene representations with dense supervision provided by the decomposed
point clouds, resulting in accurate object reconstruction and segmentation.
Experiments on the DTU, BlendedMVS and CO3D-V2 datasets demonstrate the
effectiveness and robustness of AutoRecon.

---

## 13. [Interpretability at Scale: Identifying Causal Mechanisms in Alpaca](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.08809)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.08809](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08809)

**Authors**: Zhengxuan Wu, Atticus Geiger, Christopher Potts, Noah D. Goodman

**Published**: 2023-05-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/stanfordnlp/pyvene)

### Abstract

Obtaining human-interpretable explanations of large, general-purpose language
models is an urgent goal for AI safety. However, it is just as important that
our interpretability methods are faithful to the causal dynamics underlying
model behavior and able to robustly generalize to unseen inputs. Distributed
Alignment Search (DAS) is a powerful gradient descent method grounded in a
theory of causal abstraction that uncovered perfect alignments between
interpretable symbolic algorithms and small deep learning models fine-tuned for
specific tasks. In the present paper, we scale DAS significantly by replacing
the remaining brute-force search steps with learned parameters -- an approach
we call DAS. This enables us to efficiently search for interpretable causal
structure in large language models while they follow instructions. We apply DAS
to the Alpaca model (7B parameters), which, off the shelf, solves a simple
numerical reasoning problem. With DAS, we discover that Alpaca does this by
implementing a causal model with two interpretable boolean variables.
Furthermore, we find that the alignment of neural representations with these
variables is robust to changes in inputs and instructions. These findings mark
a first step toward deeply understanding the inner-workings of our largest and
most widely deployed language models.

---

## 14. [Natural Language Decomposition and Interpretation of Complex Utterances](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.08677)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.08677](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08677)

**Authors**: Harsh Jhamtani, Hao Fang, Patrick Xia, Eran Levy, Jacob Andreas, Ben Van Durme

**Published**: 2023-05-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Natural language interfaces often require supervised data to translate user
requests into programs, database queries, or other structured intent
representations. During data collection, it can be difficult to anticipate and
formalize the full range of user needs -- for example, in a system designed to
handle simple requests (like find my meetings tomorrow or
move my meeting with my manager to noon), users may also express
more elaborate requests (like swap all my calls on Monday and
Tuesday). We introduce an approach for equipping a simple language-to-code
model to handle complex utterances via a process of hierarchical natural
language decomposition. Our approach uses a pre-trained language model to
decompose a complex utterance into a sequence of smaller natural language
steps, then interprets each step using the language-to-code model. To test our
approach, we collect and release DeCU -- a new NL-to-program benchmark to
evaluate Decomposition of Complex Utterances. Experiments show that the
proposed approach enables the interpretation of complex utterances with almost
no complex training data, while outperforming standard few-shot prompting
approaches.

---

## 15. [Improved baselines for vision-language pre-training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.08675)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.08675](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08675)

**Authors**: Enrico Fini, Pietro Astolfi, Adriana Romero-Soriano, Jakob Verbeek, Michal Drozdzal

**Published**: 2023-05-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/clip-rocket)

### Abstract

Contrastive learning has emerged as an efficient framework to learn
multimodal representations. CLIP, a seminal work in this area, achieved
impressive results by training on paired image-text data using the contrastive
loss. Recent work claims improvements over CLIP using additional
non-contrastive losses inspired from self-supervised learning. However, it is
sometimes hard to disentangle the contribution of these additional losses from
other implementation details, e.g., data augmentation or regularization
techniques, used to train the model. To shed light on this matter, in this
paper, we first propose, implement and evaluate several baselines obtained by
combining contrastive learning with recent advances in self-supervised
learning. In particular, we use the loss functions that were proven successful
for visual self-supervised learning to align image and text modalities. We find
that these baselines outperform a basic implementation of CLIP. However, when a
stronger training recipe is employed, the advantage disappears. Indeed, we find
that a simple CLIP baseline can also be improved substantially, up to a 25%
relative improvement on downstream zero-shot tasks, by using well-known
training techniques that are popular in other subfields. Moreover, we discover
that it is enough to apply image and text augmentations to make up for most of
the improvement attained by prior works. With our improved training recipe for
CLIP, we obtain state-of-the-art performance on four standard datasets, and
consistently outperform prior work (up to +4% on the largest dataset), while
being substantially simpler.

---

## 16. [ULIP-2: Towards Scalable Multimodal Pre-training For 3D Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.08275)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.08275](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08275)

**Authors**: Le Xue, Ning Yu, Shu Zhang, Junnan Li, Roberto Martín-Martín, Jiajun Wu, Caiming Xiong, Ran Xu, Juan Carlos Niebles, Silvio Savarese

**Published**: 2023-05-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/salesforce/ulip)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in multimodal pre-training methods have shown promising
efficacy in 3D representation learning by aligning features across 3D modality,
their 2D counterpart modality, and corresponding language modality. However,
the methods used by existing multimodal pre-training frameworks to gather
multimodal data for 3D applications lack scalability and comprehensiveness,
potentially constraining the full potential of multimodal learning. The main
bottleneck lies in the language modality's scalability and comprehensiveness.
To address this bottleneck, we introduce ULIP-2, a multimodal pre-training
framework that leverages state-of-the-art multimodal large language models
(LLMs) pre-trained on extensive knowledge to automatically generate holistic
language counterparts for 3D objects. We conduct experiments on two large-scale
datasets, Objaverse and ShapeNet55, and release our generated three-modality
triplet datasets (3D Point Cloud - Image - Language), named "ULIP-Objaverse
Triplets" and "ULIP-ShapeNet Triplets". ULIP-2 requires only 3D data itself and
eliminates the need for any manual annotation effort, demonstrating its
scalability; and ULIP-2 achieves remarkable improvements on downstream
zero-shot classification on ModelNet40 (74% Top1 Accuracy). Moreover, ULIP-2
sets a new record on the real-world ScanObjectNN benchmark (91.5% Overall
Accuracy) while utilizing only 1.4 million parameters(~10x fewer than current
SOTA), signifying a breakthrough in scalable multimodal 3D representation
learning without human annotations. The code and datasets are available at
https://github.com/salesforce/ULIP.

---

## 17. [Dr. LLaMA: Improving Small Language Models in Domain-Specific QA via
  Generative Data Augmentation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.07804)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.07804](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.07804)

**Authors**: Zhen Guo, Peiqi Wang, Yanwei Wang, Shangdi Yu

**Published**: 2023-05-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have made significant strides in natural
language processing but face challenges in terms of computational expense and
inefficiency as they grow in size, especially in domain-specific tasks. Small
Language Models (SLMs), on the other hand, often struggle in these tasks due to
limited capacity and training data. In this paper, we introduce Dr. LLaMA, a
method for improving SLMs through generative data augmentation using LLMs,
focusing on medical question-answering tasks and the PubMedQA dataset. Our
findings indicate that LLMs effectively refine and diversify existing
question-answer pairs, resulting in improved performance of a much smaller
model on domain-specific QA datasets after fine-tuning. This study highlights
the challenges of using LLMs for domain-specific question answering and
suggests potential research directions to address these limitations, ultimately
aiming to create more efficient and capable models for specialized
applications. We have also made our code available for interested researchers

---

## 18. [Masked Audio Text Encoders are Effective Multi-Modal Rescorers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.07677)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.07677](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.07677)

**Authors**: Jinglun Cai, Monica Sunkara, Xilai Li, Anshu Bhatia, Xiao Pan, Sravan Bodapati

**Published**: 2023-05-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Masked Language Models (MLMs) have proven to be effective for second-pass
rescoring in Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) systems. In this work, we
propose Masked Audio Text Encoder (MATE), a multi-modal masked language model
rescorer which incorporates acoustic representations into the input space of
MLM. We adopt contrastive learning for effectively aligning the modalities by
learning shared representations. We show that using a multi-modal rescorer is
beneficial for domain generalization of the ASR system when target domain data
is unavailable. MATE reduces word error rate (WER) by 4%-16% on in-domain, and
3%-7% on out-of-domain datasets, over the text-only baseline. Additionally,
with very limited amount of training data (0.8 hours), MATE achieves a WER
reduction of 8%-23% over the first-pass baseline.

---

## 19. [Dual-Alignment Pre-training for Cross-lingual Sentence Embedding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.09148)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.09148](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.09148)

**Authors**: Ziheng Li, Shaohan Huang, Zihan Zhang, Zhi-Hong Deng, Qiang Lou, Haizhen Huang, Jian Jiao, Furu Wei, Weiwei Deng, Qi Zhang

**Published**: 2023-05-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/chillingdream/dap)

### Abstract

Recent studies have shown that dual encoder models trained with the
sentence-level translation ranking task are effective methods for cross-lingual
sentence embedding. However, our research indicates that token-level alignment
is also crucial in multilingual scenarios, which has not been fully explored
previously. Based on our findings, we propose a dual-alignment pre-training
(DAP) framework for cross-lingual sentence embedding that incorporates both
sentence-level and token-level alignment. To achieve this, we introduce a novel
representation translation learning (RTL) task, where the model learns to use
one-side contextualized token representation to reconstruct its translation
counterpart. This reconstruction objective encourages the model to embed
translation information into the token representation. Compared to other
token-level alignment methods such as translation language modeling, RTL is
more suitable for dual encoder architectures and is computationally efficient.
Extensive experiments on three sentence-level cross-lingual benchmarks
demonstrate that our approach can significantly improve sentence embedding. Our
code is available at https://github.com/ChillingDream/DAP.

---

## 20. [RL4F: Generating Natural Language Feedback with Reinforcement Learning
  for Repairing Model Outputs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.08844)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.08844](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08844)

**Authors**: Afra Feyza Akyürek, Ekin Akyürek, Aman Madaan, Ashwin Kalyan, Peter Clark, Derry Wijaya, Niket Tandon

**Published**: 2023-05-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/feyzaakyurek/rl4f)

### Abstract

Despite their unprecedented success, even the largest language models make
mistakes. Similar to how humans learn and improve using feedback, previous work
proposed providing language models with natural language feedback to guide them
in repairing their outputs. Because human-generated critiques are expensive to
obtain, researchers have devised learned critique generators in lieu of human
critics while assuming one can train downstream models to utilize generated
feedback. However, this approach does not apply to black-box or limited access
models such as ChatGPT, as they cannot be fine-tuned. Moreover, in the era of
large general-purpose language agents, fine-tuning is neither computationally
nor spatially efficient as it results in multiple copies of the network. In
this work, we introduce RL4F (Reinforcement Learning for Feedback), a
multi-agent collaborative framework where the critique generator is trained to
maximize end-task performance of GPT-3, a fixed model more than 200 times its
size. RL4F produces critiques that help GPT-3 revise its outputs. We study
three datasets for action planning, summarization and alphabetization and show
improvements (~5% on average) in multiple text similarity metrics over strong
baselines across all three tasks.

---

## 21. [GPT-Sentinel: Distinguishing Human and ChatGPT Generated Content](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.07969)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.07969](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.07969)

**Authors**: Yutian Chen, Hao Kang, Vivian Zhai, Liangze Li, Rita Singh, Bhiksha Ramakrishnan

**Published**: 2023-05-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MarkChenYutian/GPT-Sentinel-public)

### Abstract

This paper presents a novel approach for detecting ChatGPT-generated vs.
human-written text using language models. To this end, we first collected and
released a pre-processed dataset named OpenGPTText, which consists of rephrased
content generated using ChatGPT. We then designed, implemented, and trained two
different models for text classification, using Robustly Optimized BERT
Pretraining Approach (RoBERTa) and Text-to-Text Transfer Transformer (T5),
respectively. Our models achieved remarkable results, with an accuracy of over
97% on the test dataset, as evaluated through various metrics. Furthermore, we
conducted an interpretability study to showcase our model's ability to extract
and differentiate key features between human-written and ChatGPT-generated
text. Our findings provide important insights into the effective use of
language models to detect generated text.

---
