# Daily Papers - 2023-05-11

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-11)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [StarCoder: may the source be with you!](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.06161)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.06161](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06161)

**Authors**: Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Yangtian Zi, Niklas Muennighoff, Denis Kocetkov, Chenghao Mou, Marc Marone, Christopher Akiki, Jia Li, Jenny Chim, Qian Liu, Evgenii Zheltonozhskii, Terry Yue Zhuo, Thomas Wang, Olivier Dehaene, Mishig Davaadorj, Joel Lamy-Poirier, João Monteiro, Oleh Shliazhko, Nicolas Gontier, Nicholas Meade, Armel Zebaze, Ming-Ho Yee, Logesh Kumar Umapathi, Jian Zhu, Benjamin Lipkin, Muhtasham Oblokulov, Zhiruo Wang, Rudra Murthy, Jason Stillerman, Siva Sankalp Patel, Dmitry Abulkhanov, Marco Zocca, Manan Dey, Zhihan Zhang, Nour Fahmy, Urvashi Bhattacharyya, Wenhao Yu, Swayam Singh, Sasha Luccioni, Paulo Villegas, Maxim Kunakov, Fedor Zhdanov, Manuel Romero, Tony Lee, Nadav Timor, Jennifer Ding, Claire Schlesinger, Hailey Schoelkopf, Jan Ebert, Tri Dao, Mayank Mishra, Alex Gu, Jennifer Robinson, Carolyn Jane Anderson, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, Danish Contractor, Siva Reddy, Daniel Fried, Dzmitry Bahdanau, Yacine Jernite, Carlos Muñoz Ferrandis, Sean Hughes, Thomas Wolf, Arjun Guha, Leandro von Werra, Harm de Vries

**Published**: 2023-05-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

The BigCode community, an open-scientific collaboration working on the
responsible development of Large Language Models for Code (Code LLMs),
introduces StarCoder and StarCoderBase: 15.5B parameter models with 8K context
length, infilling capabilities and fast large-batch inference enabled by
multi-query attention. StarCoderBase is trained on 1 trillion tokens sourced
from The Stack, a large collection of permissively licensed GitHub repositories
with inspection tools and an opt-out process. We fine-tuned StarCoderBase on
35B Python tokens, resulting in the creation of StarCoder. We perform the most
comprehensive evaluation of Code LLMs to date and show that StarCoderBase
outperforms every open Code LLM that supports multiple programming languages
and matches or outperforms the OpenAI code-cushman-001 model. Furthermore,
StarCoder outperforms every model that is fine-tuned on Python, can be prompted
to achieve 40\% pass@1 on HumanEval, and still retains its performance on other
programming languages. We take several important steps towards a safe
open-access model release, including an improved PII redaction pipeline and a
novel attribution tracing tool, and make the StarCoder models publicly
available under a more commercially viable version of the Open Responsible AI
Model license.

---

## 2. [VideoChat: Chat-Centric Video Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.06355)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.06355](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06355)

**Authors**: KunChang Li, Yinan He, Yi Wang, Yizhuo Li, Wenhai Wang, Ping Luo, Yali Wang, Limin Wang, Yu Qiao

**Published**: 2023-05-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opengvlab/ask-anything)

### Abstract

In this study, we initiate an exploration into video understanding by
introducing VideoChat, an end-to-end chat-centric video understanding system.
It integrates video foundation models and large language models via a learnable
neural interface, excelling in spatiotemporal reasoning, event localization,
and causal relationship inference. To instructively tune this system, we
propose a video-centric instruction dataset, composed of thousands of videos
matched with detailed descriptions and conversations. This dataset emphasizes
spatiotemporal reasoning and causal relationships, providing a valuable asset
for training chat-centric video understanding systems. Preliminary qualitative
experiments reveal our system's potential across a broad spectrum of video
applications and set the standard for future research. Access our code and data
at https://github.com/OpenGVLab/Ask-Anything

---

## 3. [Generative AI meets 3D: A Survey on Text-to-3D in AIGC Era](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.06131)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.06131](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06131)

**Authors**: Chenghao Li, Chaoning Zhang, Atish Waghwase, Lik-Hang Lee, Francois Rameau, Yang Yang, Sung-Ho Bae, Choong Seon Hong

**Published**: 2023-05-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Generative AI (AIGC, a.k.a. AI generated content) has made remarkable
progress in the past few years, among which text-guided content generation is
the most practical one since it enables the interaction between human
instruction and AIGC. Due to the development in text-to-image as well 3D
modeling technologies (like NeRF), text-to-3D has become a newly emerging yet
highly active research field. Our work conducts the first yet comprehensive
survey on text-to-3D to help readers interested in this direction quickly catch
up with its fast development. First, we introduce 3D data representations,
including both Euclidean data and non-Euclidean data. On top of that, we
introduce various foundation technologies as well as summarize how recent works
combine those foundation technologies to realize satisfactory text-to-3D.
Moreover, we summarize how text-to-3D technology is used in various
applications, including avatar generation, texture generation, shape
transformation, and scene generation.

---

## 4. [HumanRF: High-Fidelity Neural Radiance Fields for Humans in Motion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.06356)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.06356](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06356)

**Authors**: Mustafa Işık, Martin Rünz, Markos Georgopoulos, Taras Khakhulin, Jonathan Starck, Lourdes Agapito, Matthias Nießner

**Published**: 2023-05-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/synthesiaresearch/humanrf)

### Abstract

Representing human performance at high-fidelity is an essential building
block in diverse applications, such as film production, computer games or
videoconferencing. To close the gap to production-level quality, we introduce
HumanRF, a 4D dynamic neural scene representation that captures full-body
appearance in motion from multi-view video input, and enables playback from
novel, unseen viewpoints. Our novel representation acts as a dynamic video
encoding that captures fine details at high compression rates by factorizing
space-time into a temporal matrix-vector decomposition. This allows us to
obtain temporally coherent reconstructions of human actors for long sequences,
while representing high-resolution details even in the context of challenging
motion. While most research focuses on synthesizing at resolutions of 4MP or
lower, we address the challenge of operating at 12MP. To this end, we introduce
ActorsHQ, a novel multi-view dataset that provides 12MP footage from 160
cameras for 16 sequences with high-fidelity, per-frame mesh reconstructions. We
demonstrate challenges that emerge from using such high-resolution data and
show that our newly introduced HumanRF effectively leverages this data, making
a significant step towards production-level quality novel view synthesis.

---

## 5. [Reconstructing Animatable Categories from Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.06351)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.06351](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06351)

**Authors**: Gengshan Yang, Chaoyang Wang, N Dinesh Reddy, Deva Ramanan

**Published**: 2023-05-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lab4d-org/lab4d) | [Project Page](https://gengshan-y.github.io/rac-www)

### Abstract

Building animatable 3D models is challenging due to the need for 3D scans,
laborious registration, and manual rigging, which are difficult to scale to
arbitrary categories. Recently, differentiable rendering provides a pathway to
obtain high-quality 3D models from monocular videos, but these are limited to
rigid categories or single instances. We present RAC that builds category 3D
models from monocular videos while disentangling variations over instances and
motion over time. Three key ideas are introduced to solve this problem: (1)
specializing a skeleton to instances via optimization, (2) a method for latent
space regularization that encourages shared structure across a category while
maintaining instance details, and (3) using 3D background models to disentangle
objects from the background. We show that 3D models of humans, cats, and dogs
can be learned from 50-100 internet videos.

---

## 6. [Alternating Gradient Descent and Mixture-of-Experts for Integrated
  Multimodal Perception](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.06324)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.06324](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06324)

**Authors**: Hassan Akbari, Dan Kondratyuk, Yin Cui, Rachel Hornung, Huisheng Wang, Hartwig Adam

**Published**: 2023-05-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

We present Integrated Multimodal Perception (IMP), a simple and scalable
multimodal multi-task training and modeling approach. IMP integrates multimodal
inputs including image, video, text, and audio into a single Transformer
encoder with minimal modality-specific components. IMP makes use of a novel
design that combines Alternating Gradient Descent (AGD) and Mixture-of-Experts
(MoE) for efficient model \& task scaling. We conduct extensive empirical
studies about IMP and reveal the following key insights: 1) performing gradient
descent updates by alternating on diverse heterogeneous modalities, loss
functions, and tasks, while also varying input resolutions, efficiently
improves multimodal understanding. 2) model sparsification with MoE on a single
modality-agnostic encoder substantially improves the performance, outperforming
dense models that use modality-specific encoders or additional fusion layers
and greatly mitigating the conflicts between modalities. IMP achieves
competitive performance on a wide range of downstream tasks including image
classification, video classification, image-text, and video-text retrieval.
Most notably, we train a sparse IMP-MoE-L focusing on video tasks that achieves
new state-of-the-art in zero-shot video classification. Our model achieves
77.0% on Kinetics-400, 76.8% on Kinetics-600, and 76.8% on Kinetics-700
zero-shot classification accuracy, improving the previous state-of-the-art by
+5%, +6.7%, and +5.8%, respectively, while using only 15% of their total
training computational cost.

---

## 7. [Privacy-Preserving Recommender Systems with Synthetic Query Generation
  using Differentially Private Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05973)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05973](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05973)

**Authors**: Aldo Gael Carranza, Rezsa Farahani, Natalia Ponomareva, Alex Kurakin, Matthew Jagielski, Milad Nasr

**Published**: 2023-05-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

We propose a novel approach for developing privacy-preserving large-scale
recommender systems using differentially private (DP) large language models
(LLMs) which overcomes certain challenges and limitations in DP training these
complex systems. Our method is particularly well suited for the emerging area
of LLM-based recommender systems, but can be readily employed for any
recommender systems that process representations of natural language inputs.
Our approach involves using DP training methods to fine-tune a publicly
pre-trained LLM on a query generation task. The resulting model can generate
private synthetic queries representative of the original queries which can be
freely shared for any downstream non-private recommendation training procedures
without incurring any additional privacy cost. We evaluate our method on its
ability to securely train effective deep retrieval models, and we observe
significant improvements in their retrieval quality without compromising
query-level privacy guarantees compared to methods where the retrieval models
are directly DP trained.

---

## 8. [DexArt: Benchmarking Generalizable Dexterous Manipulation with
  Articulated Objects](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05706)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05706](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05706)

**Authors**: Chen Bao, Helin Xu, Yuzhe Qin, Xiaolong Wang

**Published**: 2023-05-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Kami-code/dexart-release)

### Abstract

To enable general-purpose robots, we will require the robot to operate daily
articulated objects as humans do. Current robot manipulation has heavily relied
on using a parallel gripper, which restricts the robot to a limited set of
objects. On the other hand, operating with a multi-finger robot hand will allow
better approximation to human behavior and enable the robot to operate on
diverse articulated objects. To this end, we propose a new benchmark called
DexArt, which involves Dexterous manipulation with Articulated objects in a
physical simulator. In our benchmark, we define multiple complex manipulation
tasks, and the robot hand will need to manipulate diverse articulated objects
within each task. Our main focus is to evaluate the generalizability of the
learned policy on unseen articulated objects. This is very challenging given
the high degrees of freedom of both hands and objects. We use Reinforcement
Learning with 3D representation learning to achieve generalization. Through
extensive studies, we provide new insights into how 3D representation learning
affects decision making in RL with 3D point cloud inputs. More details can be
found at https://www.chenbao.tech/dexart/.

---

## 9. [Multi-Task End-to-End Training Improves Conversational Recommendation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.06218)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.06218](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06218)

**Authors**: Naveen Ram, Dima Kuzmin, Ellie Ka In Chio, Moustafa Farid Alzantot, Santiago Ontanon, Ambarish Jash, Judith Yue Li

**Published**: 2023-05-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

In this paper, we analyze the performance of a multitask end-to-end
transformer model on the task of conversational recommendations, which aim to
provide recommendations based on a user's explicit preferences expressed in
dialogue. While previous works in this area adopt complex multi-component
approaches where the dialogue management and entity recommendation tasks are
handled by separate components, we show that a unified transformer model, based
on the T5 text-to-text transformer model, can perform competitively in both
recommending relevant items and generating conversation dialogue. We fine-tune
our model on the ReDIAL conversational movie recommendation dataset, and create
additional training tasks derived from MovieLens (such as the prediction of
movie attributes and related movies based on an input movie), in a multitask
learning setting. Using a series of probe studies, we demonstrate that the
learned knowledge in the additional tasks is transferred to the conversational
setting, where each task leads to a 9%-52% increase in its related probe score.

---
