# Daily Papers - 2023-05-08

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-08)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [Controllable Light Diffusion for Portraits](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04745)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04745](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04745)

**Authors**: David Futschik, Kelvin Ritland, James Vecore, Sean Fanello, Sergio Orts-Escolano, Brian Curless, Daniel Sýkora, Rohit Pandey

**Published**: 2023-05-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

We introduce light diffusion, a novel method to improve lighting in
portraits, softening harsh shadows and specular highlights while preserving
overall scene illumination. Inspired by professional photographers' diffusers
and scrims, our method softens lighting given only a single portrait photo.
Previous portrait relighting approaches focus on changing the entire lighting
environment, removing shadows (ignoring strong specular highlights), or
removing shading entirely. In contrast, we propose a learning based method that
allows us to control the amount of light diffusion and apply it on in-the-wild
portraits. Additionally, we design a method to synthetically generate plausible
external shadows with sub-surface scattering effects while conforming to the
shape of the subject's face. Finally, we show how our approach can increase the
robustness of higher level vision applications, such as albedo estimation,
geometry estimation and semantic segmentation.

---

## 2. [COLA: How to adapt vision-language models to Compose Objects Localized
  with Attributes?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03689)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03689](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03689)

**Authors**: Arijit Ray, Filip Radenovic, Abhimanyu Dubey, Bryan A. Plummer, Ranjay Krishna, Kate Saenko

**Published**: 2023-05-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/arijitray1993/COLA)

### Abstract

Compositional reasoning is a hallmark of human visual intelligence; yet
despite the size of large vision-language models, they struggle to represent
simple compositions by combining objects with their attributes. To measure this
lack of compositional capability, we design Cola, a text-to-image retrieval
benchmark to Compose Objects Localized with Attributes. Using Cola as a
testbed, we explore modeling designs to adapt pre-trained vision-language
models to reason compositionally about multiple attributes attached to multiple
objects. We explore 6 finetuning strategies on 2 seminal vision-language
models, using 3 finetuning datasets and 2 test benchmarks (Cola and CREPE).
Surprisingly, our optimal finetuning strategy improves a 151M parameter CLIP,
which disjointly encodes image and language during pretraining, to perform as
well as a 241M parameter FLAVA, which uses a multi-modal transformer encoder
during pretraining to attend over both vision and language modalities. This
optimal finetuning strategy is a lightweight multi-modal adapter that jointly
attends over both image and language features generated by the pretrained
model. We show this works better than common strategies such as
prompt/fine-tuning, or tuning a comparable number of unimodal layers.

---

## 3. [Locally Attentional SDF Diffusion for Controllable 3D Shape Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04461)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04461](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04461)

**Authors**: Xin-Yang Zheng, Hao Pan, Peng-Shuai Wang, Xin Tong, Yang Liu, Heung-Yeung Shum

**Published**: 2023-05-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Zhengxinyang/LAS-Diffusion) | [Project Page](https://zhengxinyang.github.io/projects/LAS-Diffusion.html)

### Abstract

Although the recent rapid evolution of 3D generative neural networks greatly
improves 3D shape generation, it is still not convenient for ordinary users to
create 3D shapes and control the local geometry of generated shapes. To address
these challenges, we propose a diffusion-based 3D generation framework --
locally attentional SDF diffusion, to model plausible 3D shapes, via 2D sketch
image input. Our method is built on a two-stage diffusion model. The first
stage, named occupancy-diffusion, aims to generate a low-resolution occupancy
field to approximate the shape shell. The second stage, named SDF-diffusion,
synthesizes a high-resolution signed distance field within the occupied voxels
determined by the first stage to extract fine geometry. Our model is empowered
by a novel view-aware local attention mechanism for image-conditioned shape
generation, which takes advantage of 2D image patch features to guide 3D voxel
feature learning, greatly improving local controllability and model
generalizability. Through extensive experiments in sketch-conditioned and
category-conditioned 3D shape generation tasks, we validate and demonstrate the
ability of our method to provide plausible and diverse 3D shapes, as well as
its superior controllability and generalizability over existing work. Our code
and trained models are available at
https://zhengxinyang.github.io/projects/LAS-Diffusion.html

---

## 4. [X-LLM: Bootstrapping Advanced Large Language Models by Treating
  Multi-Modalities as Foreign Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04160)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04160](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04160)

**Authors**: Feilong Chen, Minglun Han, Haozhi Zhao, Qingyang Zhang, Jing Shi, Shuang Xu, Bo Xu

**Published**: 2023-05-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/phellonchen/x-llm) | [Project Page](https://x-llm.github.io)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable language abilities.
GPT-4, based on advanced LLMs, exhibits extraordinary multimodal capabilities
beyond previous visual language models. We attribute this to the use of more
advanced LLMs compared with previous multimodal models. Unfortunately, the
model architecture and training strategies of GPT-4 are unknown. To endow LLMs
with multimodal capabilities, we propose X-LLM, which converts Multi-modalities
(images, speech, videos) into foreign languages using X2L interfaces and inputs
them into a large Language model (ChatGLM). Specifically, X-LLM aligns multiple
frozen single-modal encoders and a frozen LLM using X2L interfaces, where ``X''
denotes multi-modalities such as image, speech, and videos, and ``L'' denotes
languages. X-LLM's training consists of three stages: (1) Converting Multimodal
Information: The first stage trains each X2L interface to align with its
respective single-modal encoder separately to convert multimodal information
into languages. (2) Aligning X2L representations with the LLM: single-modal
encoders are aligned with the LLM through X2L interfaces independently. (3)
Integrating multiple modalities: all single-modal encoders are aligned with the
LLM through X2L interfaces to integrate multimodal capabilities into the LLM.
Our experiments show that X-LLM demonstrates impressive multimodel chat
abilities, sometimes exhibiting the behaviors of multimodal GPT-4 on unseen
images/instructions, and yields a 84.5\% relative score compared with GPT-4 on
a synthetic multimodal instruction-following dataset. And we also conduct
quantitative tests on using LLM for ASR and multimodal ASR, hoping to promote
the era of LLM-based speech recognition.

---

## 5. [A Variational Perspective on Solving Inverse Problems with Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04391)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04391](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04391)

**Authors**: Morteza Mardani, Jiaming Song, Jan Kautz, Arash Vahdat

**Published**: 2023-05-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nvlabs/red-diff)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have emerged as a key pillar of foundation models in visual
domains. One of their critical applications is to universally solve different
downstream inverse tasks via a single diffusion prior without re-training for
each task. Most inverse tasks can be formulated as inferring a posterior
distribution over data (e.g., a full image) given a measurement (e.g., a masked
image). This is however challenging in diffusion models since the nonlinear and
iterative nature of the diffusion process renders the posterior intractable. To
cope with this challenge, we propose a variational approach that by design
seeks to approximate the true posterior distribution. We show that our approach
naturally leads to regularization by denoising diffusion process (RED-Diff)
where denoisers at different timesteps concurrently impose different structural
constraints over the image. To gauge the contribution of denoisers from
different timesteps, we propose a weighting mechanism based on
signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR). Our approach provides a new variational
perspective for solving inverse problems with diffusion models, allowing us to
formulate sampling as stochastic optimization, where one can simply apply
off-the-shelf solvers with lightweight iterates. Our experiments for image
restoration tasks such as inpainting and superresolution demonstrate the
strengths of our method compared with state-of-the-art sampling-based diffusion
models.

---

## 6. [Avatar Fingerprinting for Authorized Use of Synthetic Talking-Head
  Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03713)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03713](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03713)

**Authors**: Ekta Prashnani, Koki Nagano, Shalini De Mello, David Luebke, Orazio Gallo

**Published**: 2023-05-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Modern generators render talking-head videos with impressive levels of
photorealism, ushering in new user experiences such as videoconferencing under
constrained bandwidth budgets. Their safe adoption, however, requires a
mechanism to verify if the rendered video is trustworthy. For instance, for
videoconferencing we must identify cases in which a synthetic video portrait
uses the appearance of an individual without their consent. We term this task
avatar fingerprinting. We propose to tackle it by leveraging facial motion
signatures unique to each person. Specifically, we learn an embedding in which
the motion signatures of one identity are grouped together, and pushed away
from those of other identities, regardless of the appearance in the synthetic
video. Avatar fingerprinting algorithms will be critical as talking head
generators become more ubiquitous, and yet no large scale datasets exist for
this new task. Therefore, we contribute a large dataset of people delivering
scripted and improvised short monologues, accompanied by synthetic videos in
which we render videos of one person using the facial appearance of another.
Project page: https://research.nvidia.com/labs/nxp/avatar-fingerprinting/.

---

## 7. [A Suite of Generative Tasks for Multi-Level Multimodal Webpage
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03668)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03668](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03668)

**Authors**: Andrea Burns, Krishna Srinivasan, Joshua Ainslie, Geoff Brown, Bryan A. Plummer, Kate Saenko, Jianmo Ni, Mandy Guo

**Published**: 2023-05-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-research-datasets/wit)

### Abstract

Webpages have been a rich, scalable resource for vision-language and language
only tasks. Yet only pieces of webpages are kept: image-caption pairs, long
text articles, or raw HTML, never all in one place. Webpage tasks have
resultingly received little attention and structured image-text data left
underused. To study multimodal webpage understanding, we introduce the
Wikipedia Webpage suite (WikiWeb2M) of 2M pages. We verify its utility on three
generative tasks: page description generation, section summarization, and
contextual image captioning. We design a novel attention mechanism Prefix
Global, which selects the most relevant image and text content as global tokens
to attend to the rest of the webpage for context. By using page structure to
separate such tokens, it performs better than full attention with lower
computational complexity. Experiments show that the new annotations from
WikiWeb2M improve task performance compared to data from prior work. We also
include ablations on sequence length, input features, and model size.

---

## 8. [Composite Motion Learning with Task Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03286)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03286](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03286)

**Authors**: Pei Xu, Xiumin Shang, Victor Zordan, Ioannis Karamouzas

**Published**: 2023-05-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xupei0610/compositemotion)

### Abstract

We present a deep learning method for composite and task-driven motion
control for physically simulated characters. In contrast to existing
data-driven approaches using reinforcement learning that imitate full-body
motions, we learn decoupled motions for specific body parts from multiple
reference motions simultaneously and directly by leveraging the use of multiple
discriminators in a GAN-like setup. In this process, there is no need of any
manual work to produce composite reference motions for learning. Instead, the
control policy explores by itself how the composite motions can be combined
automatically. We further account for multiple task-specific rewards and train
a single, multi-objective control policy. To this end, we propose a novel
framework for multi-objective learning that adaptively balances the learning of
disparate motions from multiple sources and multiple goal-directed control
objectives. In addition, as composite motions are typically augmentations of
simpler behaviors, we introduce a sample-efficient method for training
composite control policies in an incremental manner, where we reuse a
pre-trained policy as the meta policy and train a cooperative policy that
adapts the meta one for new composite tasks. We show the applicability of our
approach on a variety of challenging multi-objective tasks involving both
composite motion imitation and multiple goal-directed control.

---
