# Daily Papers - 2023-05-23

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-23)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.14314)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.14314](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14314)

**Authors**: Tim Dettmers, Artidoro Pagnoni, Ari Holtzman, Luke Zettlemoyer

**Published**: 2023-05-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 59

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/artidoro/qlora)

### Abstract

We present QLoRA, an efficient finetuning approach that reduces memory usage
enough to finetune a 65B parameter model on a single 48GB GPU while preserving
full 16-bit finetuning task performance. QLoRA backpropagates gradients through
a frozen, 4-bit quantized pretrained language model into Low Rank
Adapters~(LoRA). Our best model family, which we name Guanaco, outperforms all
previous openly released models on the Vicuna benchmark, reaching 99.3% of the
performance level of ChatGPT while only requiring 24 hours of finetuning on a
single GPU. QLoRA introduces a number of innovations to save memory without
sacrificing performance: (a) 4-bit NormalFloat (NF4), a new data type that is
information theoretically optimal for normally distributed weights (b) double
quantization to reduce the average memory footprint by quantizing the
quantization constants, and (c) paged optimziers to manage memory spikes. We
use QLoRA to finetune more than 1,000 models, providing a detailed analysis of
instruction following and chatbot performance across 8 instruction datasets,
multiple model types (LLaMA, T5), and model scales that would be infeasible to
run with regular finetuning (e.g. 33B and 65B parameter models). Our results
show that QLoRA finetuning on a small high-quality dataset leads to
state-of-the-art results, even when using smaller models than the previous
SoTA. We provide a detailed analysis of chatbot performance based on both human
and GPT-4 evaluations showing that GPT-4 evaluations are a cheap and reasonable
alternative to human evaluation. Furthermore, we find that current chatbot
benchmarks are not trustworthy to accurately evaluate the performance levels of
chatbots. A lemon-picked analysis demonstrates where Guanaco fails compared to
ChatGPT. We release all of our models and code, including CUDA kernels for
4-bit training.

---

## 2. [Enhancing Chat Language Models by Scaling High-quality Instructional
  Conversations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.14233)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.14233](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14233)

**Authors**: Ning Ding, Yulin Chen, Bokai Xu, Yujia Qin, Zhi Zheng, Shengding Hu, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun, Bowen Zhou

**Published**: 2023-05-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thunlp/ultrachat)

### Abstract

Fine-tuning on instruction data has been widely validated as an effective
practice for implementing chat language models like ChatGPT. Scaling the
diversity and quality of such data, although straightforward, stands a great
chance of leading to improved performance. This paper aims to improve the upper
bound of open-source models further. We first provide a systematically
designed, diverse, informative, large-scale dataset of instructional
conversations, UltraChat, which does not involve human queries. Our objective
is to capture the breadth of interactions that a human might have with an AI
assistant and employs a comprehensive framework to generate multi-turn
conversation iteratively. UltraChat contains 1.5 million high-quality
multi-turn dialogues and covers a wide range of topics and instructions. Our
statistical analysis of UltraChat reveals its superiority in various key
metrics, including scale, average length, diversity, coherence, etc.,
solidifying its position as a leading open-source dataset. Building upon
UltraChat, we fine-tune a LLaMA model to create a powerful conversational
model, UltraLLaMA. Our evaluations indicate that UltraLLaMA consistently
outperforms other open-source models, including Vicuna, the previously
recognized state-of-the-art open-source model. The dataset and the model will
be publicly released\url{https://github.com/thunlp/UltraChat}.

---

## 3. [Goat: Fine-tuned LLaMA Outperforms GPT-4 on Arithmetic Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.14201)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.14201](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14201)

**Authors**: Tiedong Liu, Bryan Kian Hsiang Low

**Published**: 2023-05-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/liutiedong/goat)

### Abstract

We introduce Goat, a fine-tuned LLaMA model that significantly outperforms
GPT-4 on a range of arithmetic tasks. Fine-tuned on a synthetically generated
dataset, Goat achieves state-of-the-art performance on BIG-bench arithmetic
sub-task. In particular, the zero-shot Goat-7B matches or even surpasses the
accuracy achieved by the few-shot PaLM-540B. Surprisingly, Goat can achieve
near-perfect accuracy on large-number addition and subtraction through
supervised fine-tuning only, which is almost impossible with previous
pretrained language models, such as Bloom, OPT, GPT-NeoX, etc. We attribute
Goat's exceptional performance to LLaMA's consistent tokenization of numbers.
To tackle more challenging tasks like large-number multiplication and division,
we propose an approach that classifies tasks based on their learnability, and
subsequently decomposes unlearnable tasks, such as multi-digit multiplication
and division, into a series of learnable tasks by leveraging basic arithmetic
principles. We thoroughly examine the performance of our model, offering a
comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness of our proposed decomposition
steps. Additionally, Goat-7B can be easily trained using LoRA on a 24GB VRAM
GPU, facilitating reproducibility for other researchers. We release our model,
dataset, and the Python script for dataset generation.

---

## 4. [How Language Model Hallucinations Can Snowball](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.13534)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.13534](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13534)

**Authors**: Muru Zhang, Ofir Press, William Merrill, Alisa Liu, Noah A. Smith

**Published**: 2023-05-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nanami18/snowballed_hallucination)

### Abstract

A major risk of using language models in practical applications is their
tendency to hallucinate incorrect statements. Hallucinations are often
attributed to knowledge gaps in LMs, but we hypothesize that in some cases,
when justifying previously generated hallucinations, LMs output false claims
that they can separately recognize as incorrect. We construct three
question-answering datasets where ChatGPT and GPT-4 often state an incorrect
answer and offer an explanation with at least one incorrect claim. Crucially,
we find that ChatGPT and GPT-4 can identify 67% and 87% of their own mistakes,
respectively. We refer to this phenomenon as hallucination snowballing: an LM
over-commits to early mistakes, leading to more mistakes that it otherwise
would not make.

---

## 5. [Textually Pretrained Speech Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.13009)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.13009](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13009)

**Authors**: Michael Hassid, Tal Remez, Tu Anh Nguyen, Itai Gat, Alexis Conneau, Felix Kreuk, Jade Copet, Alexandre Defossez, Gabriel Synnaeve, Emmanuel Dupoux, Roy Schwartz, Yossi Adi

**Published**: 2023-05-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/slp-rl/spokenstorycloze)

### Abstract

Speech language models (SpeechLMs) process and generate acoustic data only,
without textual supervision. In this work, we propose TWIST, a method for
training SpeechLMs using a warm-start from a pretrained textual language
models. We show using both automatic and human evaluations that TWIST
outperforms a cold-start SpeechLM across the board. We empirically analyze the
effect of different model design choices such as the speech tokenizer, the
pretrained textual model, and the dataset size. We find that model and dataset
scale both play an important role in constructing better-performing SpeechLMs.
Based on our observations, we present the largest (to the best of our
knowledge) SpeechLM both in terms of number of parameters and training data. We
additionally introduce two spoken versions of the StoryCloze textual benchmark
to further improve model evaluation and advance future research in the field.
Speech samples can be found on our website:
https://pages.cs.huji.ac.il/adiyoss-lab/twist/ .

---

## 6. [RecurrentGPT: Interactive Generation of (Arbitrarily) Long Text](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.13304)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.13304](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13304)

**Authors**: Wangchunshu Zhou, Yuchen Eleanor Jiang, Peng Cui, Tiannan Wang, Zhenxin Xiao, Yifan Hou, Ryan Cotterell, Mrinmaya Sachan

**Published**: 2023-05-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aiwaves-cn/recurrentgpt)

### Abstract

The fixed-size context of Transformer makes GPT models incapable of
generating arbitrarily long text. In this paper, we introduce RecurrentGPT, a
language-based simulacrum of the recurrence mechanism in RNNs. RecurrentGPT is
built upon a large language model (LLM) such as ChatGPT and uses natural
language to simulate the Long Short-Term Memory mechanism in an LSTM. At each
timestep, RecurrentGPT generates a paragraph of text and updates its
language-based long-short term memory stored on the hard drive and the prompt,
respectively. This recurrence mechanism enables RecurrentGPT to generate texts
of arbitrary length without forgetting. Since human users can easily observe
and edit the natural language memories, RecurrentGPT is interpretable and
enables interactive generation of long text. RecurrentGPT is an initial step
towards next-generation computer-assisted writing systems beyond local editing
suggestions. In addition to producing AI-generated content (AIGC), we also
demonstrate the possibility of using RecurrentGPT as an interactive fiction
that directly interacts with consumers. We call this usage of generative models
by ``AI As Contents'' (AIAC), which we believe is the next form of conventional
AIGC. We further demonstrate the possibility of using RecurrentGPT to create
personalized interactive fiction that directly interacts with readers instead
of interacting with writers. More broadly, RecurrentGPT demonstrates the
utility of borrowing ideas from popular model designs in cognitive science and
deep learning for prompting LLMs. Our code is available at
https://github.com/aiwaves-cn/RecurrentGPT and an online demo is available at
https://www.aiwaves.org/recurrentgpt.

---

## 7. [CodeCompose: A Large-Scale Industrial Deployment of AI-assisted Code
  Authoring](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.12050)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.12050](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.12050)

**Authors**: Vijayaraghavan Murali, Chandra Maddila, Imad Ahmad, Michael Bolin, Daniel Cheng, Negar Ghorbani, Renuka Fernandez, Nachiappan Nagappan

**Published**: 2023-05-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

The rise of large language models (LLMs) has unlocked various applications of
this technology in software development. In particular, generative LLMs have
been shown to effectively power AI-based code authoring tools that can suggest
entire statements or blocks of code during code authoring. In this paper we
present CodeCompose, an AI-assisted code authoring tool developed and deployed
at Meta internally. CodeCompose is based on the InCoder LLM that merges
generative capabilities with bi-directionality. We have scaled up CodeCompose
to serve tens of thousands of developers at Meta, across 10+ programming
languages and several coding surfaces.
  We discuss unique challenges in terms of user experience and metrics that
arise when deploying such tools in large-scale industrial settings. We present
our experience in making design decisions about the model and system
architecture for CodeCompose that addresses these challenges. Finally, we
present metrics from our large-scale deployment of CodeCompose that shows its
impact on Meta's internal code authoring experience over a 15-day time window,
where 4.5 million suggestions were made by CodeCompose. Quantitative metrics
reveal that (i) CodeCompose has an acceptance rate of 22% across several
languages, and (ii) 8% of the code typed by users of CodeCompose is through
accepting code suggestions from CodeCompose. Qualitative feedback indicates an
overwhelming 91.5% positive reception for CodeCompose. In addition to assisting
with code authoring, CodeCompose is also introducing other positive side
effects such as encouraging developers to generate more in-code documentation,
helping them with the discovery of new APIs, etc.

---

## 8. [Perception Test: A Diagnostic Benchmark for Multimodal Video Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.13786)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.13786](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13786)

**Authors**: Viorica Pătrăucean, Lucas Smaira, Ankush Gupta, Adrià Recasens Continente, Larisa Markeeva, Dylan Banarse, Skanda Koppula, Joseph Heyward, Mateusz Malinowski, Yi Yang, Carl Doersch, Tatiana Matejovicova, Yury Sulsky, Antoine Miech, Alex Frechette, Hanna Klimczak, Raphael Koster, Junlin Zhang, Stephanie Winkler, Yusuf Aytar, Simon Osindero, Dima Damen, Andrew Zisserman, João Carreira

**Published**: 2023-05-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/deepmind/perception_test)

### Abstract

We propose a novel multimodal video benchmark - the Perception Test - to
evaluate the perception and reasoning skills of pre-trained multimodal models
(e.g. Flamingo, BEiT-3, or GPT-4). Compared to existing benchmarks that focus
on computational tasks (e.g. classification, detection or tracking), the
Perception Test focuses on skills (Memory, Abstraction, Physics, Semantics) and
types of reasoning (descriptive, explanatory, predictive, counterfactual)
across video, audio, and text modalities, to provide a comprehensive and
efficient evaluation tool. The benchmark probes pre-trained models for their
transfer capabilities, in a zero-shot / few-shot or limited finetuning regime.
For these purposes, the Perception Test introduces 11.6k real-world videos, 23s
average length, designed to show perceptually interesting situations, filmed by
around 100 participants worldwide. The videos are densely annotated with six
types of labels (multiple-choice and grounded video question-answers, object
and point tracks, temporal action and sound segments), enabling both language
and non-language evaluations. The fine-tuning and validation splits of the
benchmark are publicly available (CC-BY license), in addition to a challenge
server with a held-out test split. Human baseline results compared to
state-of-the-art video QA models show a significant gap in performance (91.4%
vs 43.6%), suggesting that there is significant room for improvement in
multimodal video understanding.
  Dataset, baselines code, and challenge server are available at
https://github.com/deepmind/perception_test

---

## 9. [Aligning Large Language Models through Synthetic Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.13735)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.13735](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13735)

**Authors**: Sungdong Kim, Sanghwan Bae, Jamin Shin, Soyoung Kang, Donghyun Kwak, Kang Min Yoo, Minjoon Seo

**Published**: 2023-05-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/naver-ai/almost)

### Abstract

Aligning large language models (LLMs) to human values has become increasingly
important as it enables sophisticated steering of LLMs, e.g., making them
follow given instructions while keeping them less toxic. However, it requires a
significant amount of human demonstrations and feedback. Recently, open-sourced
models have attempted to replicate the alignment learning process by distilling
data from already aligned LLMs like InstructGPT or ChatGPT. While this process
reduces human efforts, constructing these datasets has a heavy dependency on
the teacher models. In this work, we propose a novel framework for alignment
learning with almost no human labor and no dependency on pre-aligned LLMs.
First, we perform reward modeling (RM) with synthetic feedback by contrasting
responses from vanilla LLMs with various sizes and prompts. Then, we use the RM
for simulating high-quality demonstrations to train a supervised policy and for
further optimizing the model with reinforcement learning. Our resulting model,
Aligned Language Model with Synthetic Training dataset (ALMoST), outperforms
open-sourced models, including Alpaca, Dolly, and OpenAssistant, which are
trained on the outputs of InstructGPT or human-annotated instructions. Our
7B-sized model outperforms the 12-13B models in the A/B tests using GPT-4 as
the judge with about 75% winning rate on average.

---

## 10. [Augmenting Autotelic Agents with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.12487)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.12487](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.12487)

**Authors**: Cédric Colas, Laetitia Teodorescu, Pierre-Yves Oudeyer, Xingdi Yuan, Marc-Alexandre Côté

**Published**: 2023-05-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Humans learn to master open-ended repertoires of skills by imagining and
practicing their own goals. This autotelic learning process, literally the
pursuit of self-generated (auto) goals (telos), becomes more and more
open-ended as the goals become more diverse, abstract and creative. The
resulting exploration of the space of possible skills is supported by an
inter-individual exploration: goal representations are culturally evolved and
transmitted across individuals, in particular using language. Current
artificial agents mostly rely on predefined goal representations corresponding
to goal spaces that are either bounded (e.g. list of instructions), or
unbounded (e.g. the space of possible visual inputs) but are rarely endowed
with the ability to reshape their goal representations, to form new
abstractions or to imagine creative goals. In this paper, we introduce a
language model augmented autotelic agent (LMA3) that leverages a pretrained
language model (LM) to support the representation, generation and learning of
diverse, abstract, human-relevant goals. The LM is used as an imperfect model
of human cultural transmission; an attempt to capture aspects of humans'
common-sense, intuitive physics and overall interests. Specifically, it
supports three key components of the autotelic architecture: 1)~a relabeler
that describes the goals achieved in the agent's trajectories, 2)~a goal
generator that suggests new high-level goals along with their decomposition
into subgoals the agent already masters, and 3)~reward functions for each of
these goals. Without relying on any hand-coded goal representations, reward
functions or curriculum, we show that LMA3 agents learn to master a large
diversity of skills in a task-agnostic text-based environment.

---

## 11. [OPT-R: Exploring the Role of Explanations in Finetuning and Prompting
  for Reasoning Skills of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.12001)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.12001](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.12001)

**Authors**: Badr AlKhamissi, Siddharth Verma, Ping Yu, Zhijing Jin, Asli Celikyilmaz, Mona Diab

**Published**: 2023-05-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

In this paper, we conduct a thorough investigation into the reasoning
capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs), focusing specifically on the Open
Pretrained Transformers (OPT) models as a representative of such models. Our
study entails finetuning three different sizes of OPT on a carefully curated
reasoning corpus, resulting in two sets of finetuned models: OPT-R, finetuned
without explanations, and OPT-RE, finetuned with explanations. We then evaluate
all models on 57 out-of-domain tasks drawn from the SUPER-NATURALINSTRUCTIONS
benchmark, covering 26 distinct reasoning skills, utilizing three prompting
techniques. Through a comprehensive grid of 27 configurations and 6,156 test
evaluations, we investigate the dimensions of finetuning, prompting, and scale
to understand the role of explanations on different reasoning skills. Our
findings reveal that having explanations in the fewshot exemplar has no
significant impact on the model's performance when the model is finetuned,
while positively affecting the non-finetuned counterpart. Moreover, we observe
a slight yet consistent increase in classification accuracy as we incorporate
explanations during prompting and finetuning, respectively. Finally, we offer
insights on which skills benefit the most from incorporating explanations
during finetuning and prompting, such as Numerical (+20.4%) and Analogical
(+13.9%) reasoning, as well as skills that exhibit negligible or negative
effects.

---

## 12. [XTREME-UP: A User-Centric Scarce-Data Benchmark for Under-Represented
  Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.11938)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.11938](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11938)

**Authors**: Sebastian Ruder, Jonathan H. Clark, Alexander Gutkin, Mihir Kale, Min Ma, Massimo Nicosia, Shruti Rijhwani, Parker Riley, Jean-Michel A. Sarr, Xinyi Wang, John Wieting, Nitish Gupta, Anna Katanova, Christo Kirov, Dana L. Dickinson, Brian Roark, Bidisha Samanta, Connie Tao, David I. Adelani, Vera Axelrod, Isaac Caswell, Colin Cherry, Dan Garrette, Reeve Ingle, Melvin Johnson, Dmitry Panteleev, Partha Talukdar

**Published**: 2023-05-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-research/xtreme-up)

### Abstract

Data scarcity is a crucial issue for the development of highly multilingual
NLP systems. Yet for many under-represented languages (ULs) -- languages for
which NLP re-search is particularly far behind in meeting user needs -- it is
feasible to annotate small amounts of data. Motivated by this, we propose
XTREME-UP, a benchmark defined by: its focus on the scarce-data scenario rather
than zero-shot; its focus on user-centric tasks -- tasks with broad adoption by
speakers of high-resource languages; and its focus on under-represented
languages where this scarce-data scenario tends to be most realistic. XTREME-UP
evaluates the capabilities of language models across 88 under-represented
languages over 9 key user-centric technologies including ASR, OCR, MT, and
information access tasks that are of general utility. We create new datasets
for OCR, autocomplete, semantic parsing, and transliteration, and build on and
refine existing datasets for other tasks. XTREME-UP provides methodology for
evaluating many modeling scenarios including text-only, multi-modal (vision,
audio, and text),supervised parameter tuning, and in-context learning. We
evaluate commonly used models on the benchmark. We release all code and scripts
to train and evaluate models

---
