# Daily Papers - 2023-05-04

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-04)

Total papers: 4

---

## 1. [Personalize Segment Anything Model with One Shot](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03048)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03048](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03048)

**Authors**: Renrui Zhang, Ziyu Guo, Shilin Yan, Junting Pan, Hao Dong, Peng Gao, Hongsheng Li

**Published**: 2023-05-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zrrskywalker/personalize-sam)

### Abstract

Driven by large-data pre-training, Segment Anything Model (SAM) has been
demonstrated as a powerful and promptable framework, revolutionizing the
segmentation models. Despite the generality, customizing SAM for specific
visual concepts without man-powered prompting is under explored, e.g.,
automatically segmenting your pet dog in different images. In this paper, we
propose a training-free Personalization approach for SAM, termed as PerSAM.
Given only a single image with a reference mask, PerSAM first localizes the
target concept by a location prior, and segments it within other images or
videos via three techniques: target-guided attention, target-semantic
prompting, and cascaded post-refinement. In this way, we effectively adapt SAM
for private use without any training. To further alleviate the mask ambiguity,
we present an efficient one-shot fine-tuning variant, PerSAM-F. Freezing the
entire SAM, we introduce two learnable weights for multi-scale masks, only
training 2 parameters within 10 seconds for improved performance. To
demonstrate our efficacy, we construct a new segmentation dataset, PerSeg, for
personalized evaluation, and test our methods on video object segmentation with
competitive performance. Besides, our approach can also enhance DreamBooth to
personalize Stable Diffusion for text-to-image generation, which discards the
background disturbance for better target appearance learning. Code is released
at https://github.com/ZrrSkywalker/Personalize-SAM

---

## 2. [ChatGPT-steered Editing Instructor for Customization of Abstractive
  Summarization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.02483)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.02483](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.02483)

**Authors**: Wen Xiao, Yujia Xie, Giuseppe Carenini, Pengcheng He

**Published**: 2023-05-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wendy-xiao/chatgpt_editing_summ)

### Abstract

Tailoring outputs of large language models, such as ChatGPT, to specific user
needs remains a challenge despite their impressive generation quality. In this
paper, we propose a tri-agent generation pipeline consisting of a generator, an
instructor, and an editor to enhance the customization of generated outputs.
The generator produces an initial output, the user-specific instructor
generates editing instructions, and the editor generates a revised output
aligned with user preferences. The inference-only large language model
(ChatGPT) serves as both the generator and the editor, while a smaller model
acts as the user-specific instructor to guide the generation process toward
user needs. The instructor is trained using editor-steered reinforcement
learning, leveraging feedback from the large-scale editor model to optimize
instruction generation. Experimental results on two abstractive summarization
datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in generating outputs
that better fulfill user expectations.

---

## 3. [Shap-E: Generating Conditional 3D Implicit Functions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.02463)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.02463](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.02463)

**Authors**: Heewoo Jun, Alex Nichol

**Published**: 2023-05-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/openai/shap-e)

### Abstract

We present Shap-E, a conditional generative model for 3D assets. Unlike
recent work on 3D generative models which produce a single output
representation, Shap-E directly generates the parameters of implicit functions
that can be rendered as both textured meshes and neural radiance fields. We
train Shap-E in two stages: first, we train an encoder that deterministically
maps 3D assets into the parameters of an implicit function; second, we train a
conditional diffusion model on outputs of the encoder. When trained on a large
dataset of paired 3D and text data, our resulting models are capable of
generating complex and diverse 3D assets in a matter of seconds. When compared
to Point-E, an explicit generative model over point clouds, Shap-E converges
faster and reaches comparable or better sample quality despite modeling a
higher-dimensional, multi-representation output space. We release model
weights, inference code, and samples at https://github.com/openai/shap-e.

---

## 4. [Principle-Driven Self-Alignment of Language Models from Scratch with
  Minimal Human Supervision](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.03047)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.03047](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03047)

**Authors**: Zhiqing Sun, Yikang Shen, Qinhong Zhou, Hongxin Zhang, Zhenfang Chen, David Cox, Yiming Yang, Chuang Gan

**Published**: 2023-05-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/IBM/Dromedary)

### Abstract

Recent AI-assistant agents, such as ChatGPT, predominantly rely on supervised
fine-tuning (SFT) with human annotations and reinforcement learning from human
feedback (RLHF) to align the output of large language models (LLMs) with human
intentions, ensuring they are helpful, ethical, and reliable. However, this
dependence can significantly constrain the true potential of AI-assistant
agents due to the high cost of obtaining human supervision and the related
issues on quality, reliability, diversity, self-consistency, and undesirable
biases. To address these challenges, we propose a novel approach called
SELF-ALIGN, which combines principle-driven reasoning and the generative power
of LLMs for the self-alignment of AI agents with minimal human supervision. Our
approach encompasses four stages: first, we use an LLM to generate synthetic
prompts, and a topic-guided method to augment the prompt diversity; second, we
use a small set of human-written principles for AI models to follow, and guide
the LLM through in-context learning from demonstrations (of principles
application) to produce helpful, ethical, and reliable responses to user's
queries; third, we fine-tune the original LLM with the high-quality
self-aligned responses so that the resulting model can generate desirable
responses for each query directly without the principle set and the
demonstrations anymore; and finally, we offer a refinement step to address the
issues of overly-brief or indirect responses. Applying SELF-ALIGN to the
LLaMA-65b base language model, we develop an AI assistant named Dromedary. With
fewer than 300 lines of human annotations (including < 200 seed prompts, 16
generic principles, and 5 exemplars for in-context learning). Dromedary
significantly surpasses the performance of several state-of-the-art AI systems,
including Text-Davinci-003 and Alpaca, on benchmark datasets with various
settings.

---
