# Daily Papers - 2023-05-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-05-10)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [Recommender Systems with Generative Retrieval](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05065)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05065](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05065)

**Authors**: Shashank Rajput, Nikhil Mehta, Anima Singh, Raghunandan H. Keshavan, Trung Vu, Lukasz Heldt, Lichan Hong, Yi Tay, Vinh Q. Tran, Jonah Samost, Maciej Kula, Ed H. Chi, Maheswaran Sathiamoorthy

**Published**: 2023-05-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/EdoardoBotta/RQ-VAE-Recommender)

### Abstract

Modern recommender systems leverage large-scale retrieval models consisting
of two stages: training a dual-encoder model to embed queries and candidates in
the same space, followed by an Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN) search to
select top candidates given a query's embedding. In this paper, we propose a
new single-stage paradigm: a generative retrieval model which autoregressively
decodes the identifiers for the target candidates in one phase. To do this,
instead of assigning randomly generated atomic IDs to each item, we generate
Semantic IDs: a semantically meaningful tuple of codewords for each item that
serves as its unique identifier. We use a hierarchical method called RQ-VAE to
generate these codewords. Once we have the Semantic IDs for all the items, a
Transformer based sequence-to-sequence model is trained to predict the Semantic
ID of the next item. Since this model predicts the tuple of codewords
identifying the next item directly in an autoregressive manner, it can be
considered a generative retrieval model. We show that our recommender system
trained in this new paradigm improves the results achieved by current SOTA
models on the Amazon dataset. Moreover, we demonstrate that the
sequence-to-sequence model coupled with hierarchical Semantic IDs offers better
generalization and hence improves retrieval of cold-start items for
recommendations.

---

## 2. [To Compress or Not to Compress- Self-Supervised Learning and Information
  Theory: A Review](https://huggingface.co/papers/2304.09355)

**ArXiv ID**: [2304.09355](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.09355)

**Authors**: Ravid Shwartz-Ziv, Yann LeCun

**Published**: 2023-04-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Deep neural networks have demonstrated remarkable performance in supervised
learning tasks but require large amounts of labeled data. Self-supervised
learning offers an alternative paradigm, enabling the model to learn from data
without explicit labels. Information theory has been instrumental in
understanding and optimizing deep neural networks. Specifically, the
information bottleneck principle has been applied to optimize the trade-off
between compression and relevant information preservation in supervised
settings. However, the optimal information objective in self-supervised
learning remains unclear. In this paper, we review various approaches to
self-supervised learning from an information-theoretic standpoint and present a
unified framework that formalizes the self-supervised information-theoretic
learning problem. We integrate existing research into a coherent framework,
examine recent self-supervised methods, and identify research opportunities and
challenges. Moreover, we discuss empirical measurement of information-theoretic
quantities and their estimators. This paper offers a comprehensive review of
the intersection between information theory, self-supervised learning, and deep
neural networks.

---

## 3. [Are ChatGPT and GPT-4 General-Purpose Solvers for Financial Text
  Analytics? An Examination on Several Typical Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05862)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05862](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05862)

**Authors**: Xianzhi Li, Xiaodan Zhu, Zhiqiang Ma, Xiaomo Liu, Sameena Shah

**Published**: 2023-05-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

The most recent large language models such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 have garnered
significant attention, as they are capable of generating high-quality responses
to human input. Despite the extensive testing of ChatGPT and GPT-4 on generic
text corpora, showcasing their impressive capabilities, a study focusing on
financial corpora has not been conducted. In this study, we aim to bridge this
gap by examining the potential of ChatGPT and GPT-4 as a solver for typical
financial text analytic problems in the zero-shot or few-shot setting.
Specifically, we assess their capabilities on four representative tasks over
five distinct financial textual datasets. The preliminary study shows that
ChatGPT and GPT-4 struggle on tasks such as financial named entity recognition
(NER) and sentiment analysis, where domain-specific knowledge is required,
while they excel in numerical reasoning tasks. We report both the strengths and
limitations of the current versions of ChatGPT and GPT-4, comparing them to the
state-of-the-art finetuned models as well as pretrained domain-specific
generative models. Our experiments provide qualitative studies, through which
we hope to help understand the capability of the existing models and facilitate
further improvements.

---

## 4. [AudioSlots: A slot-centric generative model for audio separation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05591)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05591](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05591)

**Authors**: Pradyumna Reddy, Scott Wisdom, Klaus Greff, John R. Hershey, Thomas Kipf

**Published**: 2023-05-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

In a range of recent works, object-centric architectures have been shown to
be suitable for unsupervised scene decomposition in the vision domain. Inspired
by these methods we present AudioSlots, a slot-centric generative model for
blind source separation in the audio domain. AudioSlots is built using
permutation-equivariant encoder and decoder networks. The encoder network based
on the Transformer architecture learns to map a mixed audio spectrogram to an
unordered set of independent source embeddings. The spatial broadcast decoder
network learns to generate the source spectrograms from the source embeddings.
We train the model in an end-to-end manner using a permutation invariant loss
function. Our results on Libri2Mix speech separation constitute a proof of
concept that this approach shows promise. We discuss the results and
limitations of our approach in detail, and further outline potential ways to
overcome the limitations and directions for future work.

---

## 5. [Relightify: Relightable 3D Faces from a Single Image via Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.06077)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.06077](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06077)

**Authors**: Foivos Paraperas Papantoniou, Alexandros Lattas, Stylianos Moschoglou, Stefanos Zafeiriou

**Published**: 2023-05-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Following the remarkable success of diffusion models on image generation,
recent works have also demonstrated their impressive ability to address a
number of inverse problems in an unsupervised way, by properly constraining the
sampling process based on a conditioning input. Motivated by this, in this
paper, we present the first approach to use diffusion models as a prior for
highly accurate 3D facial BRDF reconstruction from a single image. We start by
leveraging a high-quality UV dataset of facial reflectance (diffuse and
specular albedo and normals), which we render under varying illumination
settings to simulate natural RGB textures and, then, train an unconditional
diffusion model on concatenated pairs of rendered textures and reflectance
components. At test time, we fit a 3D morphable model to the given image and
unwrap the face in a partial UV texture. By sampling from the diffusion model,
while retaining the observed texture part intact, the model inpaints not only
the self-occluded areas but also the unknown reflectance components, in a
single sequence of denoising steps. In contrast to existing methods, we
directly acquire the observed texture from the input image, thus, resulting in
more faithful and consistent reflectance estimation. Through a series of
qualitative and quantitative comparisons, we demonstrate superior performance
in both texture completion as well as reflectance reconstruction tasks.

---

## 6. [Sketching the Future (STF): Applying Conditional Control Techniques to
  Text-to-Video Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05845)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05845](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05845)

**Authors**: Rohan Dhesikan, Vignesh Rajmohan

**Published**: 2023-05-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/rohandkn/skribble2vid)

### Abstract

The proliferation of video content demands efficient and flexible neural
network based approaches for generating new video content. In this paper, we
propose a novel approach that combines zero-shot text-to-video generation with
ControlNet to improve the output of these models. Our method takes multiple
sketched frames as input and generates video output that matches the flow of
these frames, building upon the Text-to-Video Zero architecture and
incorporating ControlNet to enable additional input conditions. By first
interpolating frames between the inputted sketches and then running
Text-to-Video Zero using the new interpolated frames video as the control
technique, we leverage the benefits of both zero-shot text-to-video generation
and the robust control provided by ControlNet. Experiments demonstrate that our
method excels at producing high-quality and remarkably consistent video content
that more accurately aligns with the user's intended motion for the subject
within the video. We provide a comprehensive resource package, including a demo
video, project website, open-source GitHub repository, and a Colab playground
to foster further research and application of our proposed method.

---

## 7. [TidyBot: Personalized Robot Assistance with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05658)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05658](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05658)

**Authors**: Jimmy Wu, Rika Antonova, Adam Kan, Marion Lepert, Andy Zeng, Shuran Song, Jeannette Bohg, Szymon Rusinkiewicz, Thomas Funkhouser

**Published**: 2023-05-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jimmyyhwu/tidybot) | [Project Page](https://tidybot.cs.princeton.edu/)

### Abstract

For a robot to personalize physical assistance effectively, it must learn
user preferences that can be generally reapplied to future scenarios. In this
work, we investigate personalization of household cleanup with robots that can
tidy up rooms by picking up objects and putting them away. A key challenge is
determining the proper place to put each object, as people's preferences can
vary greatly depending on personal taste or cultural background. For instance,
one person may prefer storing shirts in the drawer, while another may prefer
them on the shelf. We aim to build systems that can learn such preferences from
just a handful of examples via prior interactions with a particular person. We
show that robots can combine language-based planning and perception with the
few-shot summarization capabilities of large language models (LLMs) to infer
generalized user preferences that are broadly applicable to future
interactions. This approach enables fast adaptation and achieves 91.2% accuracy
on unseen objects in our benchmark dataset. We also demonstrate our approach on
a real-world mobile manipulator called TidyBot, which successfully puts away
85.0% of objects in real-world test scenarios.

---

## 8. [Large Language Model Programs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05364)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05364](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05364)

**Authors**: Imanol Schlag, Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Asli Celikyilmaz, Wen-tau Yih, Jason Weston, Jürgen Schmidhuber, Xian Li

**Published**: 2023-05-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

In recent years, large pre-trained language models (LLMs) have demonstrated
the ability to follow instructions and perform novel tasks from a few examples.
The possibility to parameterise an LLM through such in-context examples widens
their capability at a much lower cost than finetuning. We extend this line of
reasoning and present a method which further expands the capabilities of an LLM
by embedding it within an algorithm or program. To demonstrate the benefits of
this approach, we present an illustrative example of evidence-supported
question-answering. We obtain a 6.4\% improvement over the chain of thought
baseline through a more algorithmic approach without any finetuning.
Furthermore, we highlight recent work from this perspective and discuss the
advantages and disadvantages in comparison to the standard approaches.

---

## 9. [NerfAcc: Efficient Sampling Accelerates NeRFs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.04966)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.04966](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04966)

**Authors**: Ruilong Li, Hang Gao, Matthew Tancik, Angjoo Kanazawa

**Published**: 2023-05-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/nerfacc) | [Project Page](https://www.nerfacc.com)

### Abstract

Optimizing and rendering Neural Radiance Fields is computationally expensive
due to the vast number of samples required by volume rendering. Recent works
have included alternative sampling approaches to help accelerate their methods,
however, they are often not the focus of the work. In this paper, we
investigate and compare multiple sampling approaches and demonstrate that
improved sampling is generally applicable across NeRF variants under an unified
concept of transmittance estimator. To facilitate future experiments, we
develop NerfAcc, a Python toolbox that provides flexible APIs for incorporating
advanced sampling methods into NeRF related methods. We demonstrate its
flexibility by showing that it can reduce the training time of several recent
NeRF methods by 1.5x to 20x with minimal modifications to the existing
codebase. Additionally, highly customized NeRFs, such as Instant-NGP, can be
implemented in native PyTorch using NerfAcc.

---

## 10. [Code Execution with Pre-trained Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05383)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05383](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05383)

**Authors**: Chenxiao Liu, Shuai Lu, Weizhu Chen, Daxin Jiang, Alexey Svyatkovskiy, Shengyu Fu, Neel Sundaresan, Nan Duan

**Published**: 2023-05-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/CodeBERT)

### Abstract

Code execution is a fundamental aspect of programming language semantics that
reflects the exact behavior of the code. However, most pre-trained models for
code intelligence ignore the execution trace and only rely on source code and
syntactic structures. In this paper, we investigate how well pre-trained models
can understand and perform code execution. We develop a mutation-based data
augmentation technique to create a large-scale and realistic Python dataset and
task for code execution, which challenges existing models such as Codex. We
then present CodeExecutor, a Transformer model that leverages code execution
pre-training and curriculum learning to enhance its semantic comprehension. We
evaluate CodeExecutor on code execution and show its promising performance and
limitations. We also demonstrate its potential benefits for code intelligence
tasks such as zero-shot code-to-code search and text-to-code generation. Our
analysis provides insights into the learning and generalization abilities of
pre-trained models for code execution.

---

## 11. [WikiWeb2M: A Page-Level Multimodal Wikipedia Dataset](https://huggingface.co/papers/2305.05432)

**ArXiv ID**: [2305.05432](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05432)

**Authors**: Andrea Burns, Krishna Srinivasan, Joshua Ainslie, Geoff Brown, Bryan A. Plummer, Kate Saenko, Jianmo Ni, Mandy Guo

**Published**: 2023-05-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-05-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Webpages have been a rich resource for language and vision-language tasks.
Yet only pieces of webpages are kept: image-caption pairs, long text articles,
or raw HTML, never all in one place. Webpage tasks have resultingly received
little attention and structured image-text data underused. To study multimodal
webpage understanding, we introduce the Wikipedia Webpage 2M (WikiWeb2M) suite;
the first to retain the full set of images, text, and structure data available
in a page. WikiWeb2M can be used for tasks like page description generation,
section summarization, and contextual image captioning.

---
