# Daily Papers - 2024-10-11

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-10-11)

Total papers: 26

---

## 1. [WALL-E: World Alignment by Rule Learning Improves World Model-based LLM
  Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.07484)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.07484](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07484)

**Authors**: Siyu Zhou, Tianyi Zhou, Yijun Yang, Guodong Long, Deheng Ye, Jing Jiang, Chengqi Zhang

**Published**: 2024-10-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Tianyi Zhou

**Upvotes**: 51

### Abstract

Can large language models (LLMs) directly serve as powerful world models for
model-based agents? While the gaps between the prior knowledge of LLMs and the
specified environment's dynamics do exist, our study reveals that the gaps can
be bridged by aligning an LLM with its deployed environment and such "world
alignment" can be efficiently achieved by rule learning on LLMs. Given the rich
prior knowledge of LLMs, only a few additional rules suffice to align LLM
predictions with the specified environment dynamics. To this end, we propose a
neurosymbolic approach to learn these rules gradient-free through LLMs, by
inducing, updating, and pruning rules based on comparisons of agent-explored
trajectories and world model predictions. The resulting world model is composed
of the LLM and the learned rules. Our embodied LLM agent "WALL-E" is built upon
model-predictive control (MPC). By optimizing look-ahead actions based on the
precise world model, MPC significantly improves exploration and learning
efficiency. Compared to existing LLM agents, WALL-E's reasoning only requires a
few principal rules rather than verbose buffered trajectories being included in
the LLM input. On open-world challenges in Minecraft and ALFWorld, WALL-E
achieves higher success rates than existing methods, with lower costs on
replanning time and the number of tokens used for reasoning. In Minecraft,
WALL-E exceeds baselines by 15-30% in success rate while costing 8-20 fewer
replanning rounds and only 60-80% of tokens. In ALFWorld, its success rate
surges to a new record high of 95% only after 6 iterations.

---

## 2. [MathCoder2: Better Math Reasoning from Continued Pretraining on
  Model-translated Mathematical Code](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.08196)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.08196](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08196)

**Authors**: Zimu Lu, Aojun Zhou, Ke Wang, Houxing Ren, Weikang Shi, Junting Pan, Mingjie Zhan, Hongsheng Li

**Published**: 2024-10-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by AJ.Zhou

**Upvotes**: 48

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mathllm/mathcoder2)

### Abstract

Code has been shown to be effective in enhancing the mathematical reasoning
abilities of large language models due to its precision and accuracy. Previous
works involving continued mathematical pretraining often include code that
utilizes math-related packages, which are primarily designed for fields such as
engineering, machine learning, signal processing, or module testing, rather
than being directly focused on mathematical reasoning. In this paper, we
introduce a novel method for generating mathematical code accompanied with
corresponding reasoning steps for continued pretraining. Our approach begins
with the construction of a high-quality mathematical continued pretraining
dataset by incorporating math-related web data, code using mathematical
packages, math textbooks, and synthetic data. Next, we construct reasoning
steps by extracting LaTeX expressions, the conditions needed for the
expressions, and the results of the expressions from the previously collected
dataset. Based on this extracted information, we generate corresponding code to
accurately capture the mathematical reasoning process. Appending the generated
code to each reasoning step results in data consisting of paired natural
language reasoning steps and their corresponding code. Combining this data with
the original dataset results in a 19.2B-token high-performing mathematical
pretraining corpus, which we name MathCode-Pile. Training several popular base
models with this corpus significantly improves their mathematical abilities,
leading to the creation of the MathCoder2 family of models. All of our data
processing and training code is open-sourced, ensuring full transparency and
easy reproducibility of the entire data collection and training pipeline. The
code is released at https://github.com/mathllm/MathCoder2 .

---

## 3. [MLLM as Retriever: Interactively Learning Multimodal Retrieval for
  Embodied Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.03450)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.03450](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.03450)

**Organization**: Beijing Academy of Artificial Intelligence

**Authors**: Junpeng Yue, Xinru Xu, Börje F. Karlsson, Zongqing Lu

**Published**: 2024-10-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Börje Karlsson

**Upvotes**: 36

### Abstract

MLLM agents demonstrate potential for complex embodied tasks by retrieving
multimodal task-relevant trajectory data. However, current retrieval methods
primarily focus on surface-level similarities of textual or visual cues in
trajectories, neglecting their effectiveness for the specific task at hand. To
address this issue, we propose a novel method, MLLM as ReTriever (MART), which
enhances the performance of embodied agents by utilizing interaction data to
fine-tune an MLLM retriever based on preference learning, such that the
retriever fully considers the effectiveness of trajectories and prioritize them
for unseen tasks. We also introduce Trajectory Abstraction, a mechanism that
leverages MLLMs' summarization capabilities to represent trajectories with
fewer tokens while preserving key information, enabling agents to better
comprehend milestones in the trajectory. Experimental results across various
environments demonstrate our method significantly improves task success rates
in unseen scenes compared to baseline methods. This work presents a new
paradigm for multimodal retrieval in embodied agents, by fine-tuning a
general-purpose MLLM as the retriever to assess trajectory effectiveness. All
benchmark task sets and simulator code modifications for action and observation
spaces will be released.

---

## 4. [PrefixQuant: Static Quantization Beats Dynamic through Prefixed Outliers
  in LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.05265)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.05265](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05265)

**Authors**: Mengzhao Chen, Jiahao Wang, Yi Bin, Wenqi Shao, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2024-10-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Mengzhao Chen

**Upvotes**: 33

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/chenmnz/prefixquant)

### Abstract

Quantization is essential for deploying Large Language Models (LLMs) by
enhancing memory efficiency and inference speed. Existing methods for
activation quantization mainly address channel-wise outliers, often neglecting
token-wise outliers, leading to reliance on costly per-token dynamic
quantization. To address this, we introduce PrefixQuant, a novel technique that
isolates outlier tokens offline without re-training. Specifically, PrefixQuant
identifies high-frequency outlier tokens and prefixes them in the KV cache,
preventing the generation of outlier tokens during inference and simplifying
quantization. To our knowledge, PrefixQuant is the first to enable efficient
per-tensor static quantization to outperform expensive per-token dynamic
quantization. For instance, in W4A4KV4 (4- bit weight, 4-bit activation, and
4-bit KV cache) Llama-3-8B, PrefixQuant with per-tensor static quantization
achieves a 7.43 WikiText2 perplexity and 71.08% average accuracy on 5
common-sense reasoning tasks, outperforming previous per-token dynamic
quantization methods like QuaRot with 0.98 perplexity improvement and +5.98
points accuracy. Additionally, the inference speed of W4A4 quantized models
using PrefixQuant is 1.60x to 2.81x faster than FP16 models and exceeds QuaRot
models by 1.2x to 1.3x. Our code is available at
https://github.com/ChenMnZ/PrefixQuant.

---

## 5. [Benchmarking Agentic Workflow Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.07869)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.07869](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07869)

**Authors**: Shuofei Qiao, Runnan Fang, Zhisong Qiu, Xiaobin Wang, Ningyu Zhang, Yong Jiang, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang, Huajun Chen

**Published**: 2024-10-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Ningyu Zhang

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zjunlp/worfbench)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs), with their exceptional ability to handle a wide
range of tasks, have driven significant advancements in tackling reasoning and
planning tasks, wherein decomposing complex problems into executable workflows
is a crucial step in this process. Existing workflow evaluation frameworks
either focus solely on holistic performance or suffer from limitations such as
restricted scenario coverage, simplistic workflow structures, and lax
evaluation standards. To this end, we introduce WorFBench, a unified workflow
generation benchmark with multi-faceted scenarios and intricate graph workflow
structures. Additionally, we present WorFEval, a systemic evaluation protocol
utilizing subsequence and subgraph matching algorithms to accurately quantify
the LLM agent's workflow generation capabilities. Through comprehensive
evaluations across different types of LLMs, we discover distinct gaps between
the sequence planning capabilities and graph planning capabilities of LLM
agents, with even GPT-4 exhibiting a gap of around 15%. We also train two
open-source models and evaluate their generalization abilities on held-out
tasks. Furthermore, we observe that the generated workflows can enhance
downstream tasks, enabling them to achieve superior performance with less time
during inference. Code and dataset will be available at
https://github.com/zjunlp/WorFBench.

---

## 6. [Agent S: An Open Agentic Framework that Uses Computers Like a Human](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.08164)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.08164](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08164)

**Authors**: Saaket Agashe, Jiuzhou Han, Shuyu Gan, Jiachen Yang, Ang Li, Xin Eric Wang

**Published**: 2024-10-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Xin Eric Wang

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

We present Agent S, an open agentic framework that enables autonomous
interaction with computers through a Graphical User Interface (GUI), aimed at
transforming human-computer interaction by automating complex, multi-step
tasks. Agent S aims to address three key challenges in automating computer
tasks: acquiring domain-specific knowledge, planning over long task horizons,
and handling dynamic, non-uniform interfaces. To this end, Agent S introduces
experience-augmented hierarchical planning, which learns from external
knowledge search and internal experience retrieval at multiple levels,
facilitating efficient task planning and subtask execution. In addition, it
employs an Agent-Computer Interface (ACI) to better elicit the reasoning and
control capabilities of GUI agents based on Multimodal Large Language Models
(MLLMs). Evaluation on the OSWorld benchmark shows that Agent S outperforms the
baseline by 9.37% on success rate (an 83.6% relative improvement) and achieves
a new state-of-the-art. Comprehensive analysis highlights the effectiveness of
individual components and provides insights for future improvements.
Furthermore, Agent S demonstrates broad generalizability to different operating
systems on a newly-released WindowsAgentArena benchmark. Code available at
https://github.com/simular-ai/Agent-S.

---

## 7. [DART: Denoising Autoregressive Transformer for Scalable Text-to-Image
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.08159)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.08159](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08159)

**Authors**: Jiatao Gu, Yuyang Wang, Yizhe Zhang, Qihang Zhang, Dinghuai Zhang, Navdeep Jaitly, Josh Susskind, Shuangfei Zhai

**Published**: 2024-10-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Jiatao Gu

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

Diffusion models have become the dominant approach for visual generation.
They are trained by denoising a Markovian process that gradually adds noise to
the input. We argue that the Markovian property limits the models ability to
fully utilize the generation trajectory, leading to inefficiencies during
training and inference. In this paper, we propose DART, a transformer-based
model that unifies autoregressive (AR) and diffusion within a non-Markovian
framework. DART iteratively denoises image patches spatially and spectrally
using an AR model with the same architecture as standard language models. DART
does not rely on image quantization, enabling more effective image modeling
while maintaining flexibility. Furthermore, DART seamlessly trains with both
text and image data in a unified model. Our approach demonstrates competitive
performance on class-conditioned and text-to-image generation tasks, offering a
scalable, efficient alternative to traditional diffusion models. Through this
unified framework, DART sets a new benchmark for scalable, high-quality image
synthesis.

---

## 8. [DICE: Discrete Inversion Enabling Controllable Editing for Multinomial
  Diffusion and Masked Generative Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.08207)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.08207](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08207)

**Authors**: Xiaoxiao He, Ligong Han, Quan Dao, Song Wen, Minhao Bai, Di Liu, Han Zhang, Martin Renqiang Min, Felix Juefei-Xu, Chaowei Tan, Bo Liu, Kang Li, Hongdong Li, Junzhou Huang, Faez Ahmed, Akash Srivastava, Dimitris Metaxas

**Published**: 2024-10-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Arist He

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Discrete diffusion models have achieved success in tasks like image
generation and masked language modeling but face limitations in controlled
content editing. We introduce DICE (Discrete Inversion for Controllable
Editing), the first approach to enable precise inversion for discrete diffusion
models, including multinomial diffusion and masked generative models. By
recording noise sequences and masking patterns during the reverse diffusion
process, DICE enables accurate reconstruction and flexible editing of discrete
data without the need for predefined masks or attention manipulation. We
demonstrate the effectiveness of DICE across both image and text domains,
evaluating it on models such as VQ-Diffusion, Paella, and RoBERTa. Our results
show that DICE preserves high data fidelity while enhancing editing
capabilities, offering new opportunities for fine-grained content manipulation
in discrete spaces. For project webpage, see
https://hexiaoxiao-cs.github.io/DICE/.

---

## 9. [Rectified Diffusion: Straightness Is Not Your Need in Rectified Flow](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.07303)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.07303](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07303)

**Authors**: Fu-Yun Wang, Ling Yang, Zhaoyang Huang, Mengdi Wang, Hongsheng Li

**Published**: 2024-10-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Ling Yang

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/g-u-n/rectified-diffusion)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have greatly improved visual generation but are hindered by
slow generation speed due to the computationally intensive nature of solving
generative ODEs. Rectified flow, a widely recognized solution, improves
generation speed by straightening the ODE path. Its key components include: 1)
using the diffusion form of flow-matching, 2) employing boldsymbol
v-prediction, and 3) performing rectification (a.k.a. reflow). In this paper,
we argue that the success of rectification primarily lies in using a pretrained
diffusion model to obtain matched pairs of noise and samples, followed by
retraining with these matched noise-sample pairs. Based on this, components 1)
and 2) are unnecessary. Furthermore, we highlight that straightness is not an
essential training target for rectification; rather, it is a specific case of
flow-matching models. The more critical training target is to achieve a
first-order approximate ODE path, which is inherently curved for models like
DDPM and Sub-VP. Building on this insight, we propose Rectified Diffusion,
which generalizes the design space and application scope of rectification to
encompass the broader category of diffusion models, rather than being
restricted to flow-matching models. We validate our method on Stable Diffusion
v1-5 and Stable Diffusion XL. Our method not only greatly simplifies the
training procedure of rectified flow-based previous works (e.g., InstaFlow) but
also achieves superior performance with even lower training cost. Our code is
available at https://github.com/G-U-N/Rectified-Diffusion.

---

## 10. [Progressive Autoregressive Video Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.08151)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.08151](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08151)

**Authors**: Desai Xie, Zhan Xu, Yicong Hong, Hao Tan, Difan Liu, Feng Liu, Arie Kaufman, Yang Zhou

**Published**: 2024-10-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/desaixie/pa_vdm)

### Abstract

Current frontier video diffusion models have demonstrated remarkable results
at generating high-quality videos. However, they can only generate short video
clips, normally around 10 seconds or 240 frames, due to computation limitations
during training. In this work, we show that existing models can be naturally
extended to autoregressive video diffusion models without changing the
architectures. Our key idea is to assign the latent frames with progressively
increasing noise levels rather than a single noise level, which allows for
fine-grained condition among the latents and large overlaps between the
attention windows. Such progressive video denoising allows our models to
autoregressively generate video frames without quality degradation or abrupt
scene changes. We present state-of-the-art results on long video generation at
1 minute (1440 frames at 24 FPS). Videos from this paper are available at
https://desaixie.github.io/pa-vdm/.

---

## 11. [GLOV: Guided Large Language Models as Implicit Optimizers for Vision
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.06154)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.06154](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06154)

**Authors**: M. Jehanzeb Mirza, Mengjie Zhao, Zhuoyuan Mao, Sivan Doveh, Wei Lin, Paul Gavrikov, Michael Dorkenwald, Shiqi Yang, Saurav Jha, Hiromi Wakaki, Yuki Mitsufuji, Horst Possegger, Rogerio Feris, Leonid Karlinsky, James Glass

**Published**: 2024-10-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Michael Dorkenwald

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jmiemirza/glov)

### Abstract

In this work, we propose a novel method (GLOV) enabling Large Language Models
(LLMs) to act as implicit Optimizers for Vision-Langugage Models (VLMs) to
enhance downstream vision tasks. Our GLOV meta-prompts an LLM with the
downstream task description, querying it for suitable VLM prompts (e.g., for
zero-shot classification with CLIP). These prompts are ranked according to a
purity measure obtained through a fitness function. In each respective
optimization step, the ranked prompts are fed as in-context examples (with
their accuracies) to equip the LLM with the knowledge of the type of text
prompts preferred by the downstream VLM. Furthermore, we also explicitly steer
the LLM generation process in each optimization step by specifically adding an
offset difference vector of the embeddings from the positive and negative
solutions found by the LLM, in previous optimization steps, to the intermediate
layer of the network for the next generation step. This offset vector steers
the LLM generation toward the type of language preferred by the downstream VLM,
resulting in enhanced performance on the downstream vision tasks. We
comprehensively evaluate our GLOV on 16 diverse datasets using two families of
VLMs, i.e., dual-encoder (e.g., CLIP) and encoder-decoder (e.g., LLaVa) models
-- showing that the discovered solutions can enhance the recognition
performance by up to 15.0% and 57.5% (3.8% and 21.6% on average) for these
models.

---

## 12. [Intriguing Properties of Large Language and Vision Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.04751)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.04751](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.04751)

**Authors**: Young-Jun Lee, Byungsoo Ko, Han-Gyu Kim, Yechan Hwang, Ho-Jin Choi

**Published**: 2024-10-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Young-Jun Lee

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Recently, large language and vision models (LLVMs) have received significant
attention and development efforts due to their remarkable generalization
performance across a wide range of tasks requiring perception and cognitive
abilities. A key factor behind their success is their simple architecture,
which consists of a vision encoder, a projector, and a large language model
(LLM). Despite their achievements in advanced reasoning tasks, their
performance on fundamental perception-related tasks (e.g., MMVP) remains
surprisingly low. This discrepancy raises the question of how LLVMs truly
perceive images and exploit the advantages of the vision encoder. To address
this, we systematically investigate this question regarding several aspects:
permutation invariance, robustness, math reasoning, alignment preserving and
importance, by evaluating the most common LLVM's families (i.e., LLaVA) across
10 evaluation benchmarks. Our extensive experiments reveal several intriguing
properties of current LLVMs: (1) they internally process the image in a global
manner, even when the order of visual patch sequences is randomly permuted; (2)
they are sometimes able to solve math problems without fully perceiving
detailed numerical information; (3) the cross-modal alignment is overfitted to
complex reasoning tasks, thereby, causing them to lose some of the original
perceptual capabilities of their vision encoder; (4) the representation space
in the lower layers (<25%) plays a crucial role in determining performance and
enhancing visual understanding. Lastly, based on the above observations, we
suggest potential future directions for building better LLVMs and constructing
more challenging evaluation benchmarks.

---

## 13. [Towards Self-Improvement of LLMs via MCTS: Leveraging Stepwise Knowledge
  with Curriculum Preference Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.06508)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.06508](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06508)

**Authors**: Xiyao Wang, Linfeng Song, Ye Tian, Dian Yu, Baolin Peng, Haitao Mi, Furong Huang, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2024-10-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Linfeng Song

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) has recently emerged as a powerful technique
for enhancing the reasoning capabilities of LLMs. Techniques such as SFT or DPO
have enabled LLMs to distill high-quality behaviors from MCTS, improving their
reasoning performance. However, existing distillation methods underutilize the
rich trajectory information generated by MCTS, limiting the potential for
improvements in LLM reasoning. In this paper, we propose AlphaLLM-CPL, a novel
pairwise training framework that enables LLMs to self-improve through MCTS
behavior distillation. AlphaLLM-CPL efficiently leverages MCTS trajectories via
two key innovations: (1) AlphaLLM-CPL constructs stepwise trajectory pairs from
child nodes sharing the same parent in the search tree, providing step-level
information for more effective MCTS behavior distillation. (2) AlphaLLM-CPL
introduces curriculum preference learning, dynamically adjusting the training
sequence of trajectory pairs in each offline training epoch to prioritize
critical learning steps and mitigate overfitting. Experimental results on
mathematical reasoning tasks demonstrate that AlphaLLM-CPL significantly
outperforms previous MCTS behavior distillation methods, substantially boosting
the reasoning capabilities of LLMs.

---

## 14. [Everything Everywhere All at Once: LLMs can In-Context Learn Multiple
  Tasks in Superposition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.05603)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.05603](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05603)

**Authors**: Zheyang Xiong, Ziyang Cai, John Cooper, Albert Ge, Vasilis Papageorgiou, Zack Sifakis, Angeliki Giannou, Ziqian Lin, Liu Yang, Saurabh Agarwal, Grigorios G Chrysos, Samet Oymak, Kangwook Lee, Dimitris Papailiopoulos

**Published**: 2024-10-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Zheyang Xiong

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable in-context learning
(ICL) capabilities. In this study, we explore a surprising phenomenon related
to ICL: LLMs can perform multiple, computationally distinct ICL tasks
simultaneously, during a single inference call, a capability we term "task
superposition". We provide empirical evidence of this phenomenon across various
LLM families and scales and show that this phenomenon emerges even if we train
the model to in-context learn one task at a time. We offer theoretical
explanations that this capability is well within the expressive power of
transformers. We also explore how LLMs internally compose task vectors during
superposition. Furthermore, we show that larger models can solve more ICL tasks
in parallel, and better calibrate their output distribution. Our findings offer
insights into the latent capabilities of LLMs, further substantiate the
perspective of "LLMs as superposition of simulators", and raise questions about
the mechanisms enabling simultaneous task execution.

---

## 15. [Preserving Multi-Modal Capabilities of Pre-trained VLMs for Improving
  Vision-Linguistic Compositionality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.05210)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.05210](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05210)

**Authors**: Youngtaek Oh, Jae Won Cho, Dong-Jin Kim, In So Kweon, Junmo Kim

**Published**: 2024-10-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Youngtaek Oh

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ytaek-oh/fsc-clip)

### Abstract

In this paper, we propose a new method to enhance compositional understanding
in pre-trained vision and language models (VLMs) without sacrificing
performance in zero-shot multi-modal tasks. Traditional fine-tuning approaches
often improve compositional reasoning at the cost of degrading multi-modal
capabilities, primarily due to the use of global hard negative (HN) loss, which
contrasts global representations of images and texts. This global HN loss
pushes HN texts that are highly similar to the original ones, damaging the
model's multi-modal representations. To overcome this limitation, we propose
Fine-grained Selective Calibrated CLIP (FSC-CLIP), which integrates local hard
negative loss and selective calibrated regularization. These innovations
provide fine-grained negative supervision while preserving the model's
representational integrity. Our extensive evaluations across diverse benchmarks
for both compositionality and multi-modal tasks show that FSC-CLIP not only
achieves compositionality on par with state-of-the-art models but also retains
strong multi-modal capabilities. Code is available at:
https://github.com/ytaek-oh/fsc-clip.

---

## 16. [SFTMix: Elevating Language Model Instruction Tuning with Mixup Recipe](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.05248)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.05248](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05248)

**Authors**: Yuxin Xiao, Shujian Zhang, Wenxuan Zhou, Marzyeh Ghassemi, Sanqiang Zhao

**Published**: 2024-10-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Yuxin Xiao

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

To induce desired behaviors in large language models (LLMs) for
interaction-driven tasks, the instruction-tuning stage typically trains LLMs on
instruction-response pairs using the next-token prediction (NTP) loss. Previous
work aiming to improve instruction-tuning performance often emphasizes the need
for higher-quality supervised fine-tuning (SFT) datasets, which typically
involves expensive data filtering with proprietary LLMs or labor-intensive data
generation by human annotators. However, these approaches do not fully leverage
the datasets' intrinsic properties, resulting in high computational and labor
costs, thereby limiting scalability and performance gains. In this paper, we
propose SFTMix, a novel recipe that elevates instruction-tuning performance
beyond the conventional NTP paradigm, without the need for well-curated
datasets. Observing that LLMs exhibit uneven confidence across the semantic
representation space, we argue that examples with different confidence levels
should play distinct roles during the instruction-tuning process. Based on this
insight, SFTMix leverages training dynamics to identify examples with varying
confidence levels, then applies a Mixup-based regularization to mitigate
overfitting on confident examples while propagating supervision signals to
improve learning on relatively unconfident ones. This approach enables SFTMix
to significantly outperform NTP across a wide range of instruction-following
and healthcare domain-specific SFT tasks, demonstrating its adaptability to
diverse LLM families and scalability to datasets of any size. Comprehensive
ablation studies further verify the robustness of SFTMix's design choices,
underscoring its versatility in consistently enhancing performance across
different LLMs and datasets in broader natural language processing
applications.

---

## 17. [Optima: Optimizing Effectiveness and Efficiency for LLM-Based
  Multi-Agent System](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.08115)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.08115](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08115)

**Authors**: Weize Chen, Jiarui Yuan, Chen Qian, Cheng Yang, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2024-10-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by weize

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thunlp/Optima) | [Project Page](https://chenweize1998.github.io/optima-project-page/)

### Abstract

Large Language Model (LLM) based multi-agent systems (MAS) show remarkable
potential in collaborative problem-solving, yet they still face critical
challenges: low communication efficiency, poor scalability, and a lack of
effective parameter-updating optimization methods. We present Optima, a novel
framework that addresses these issues by significantly enhancing both
communication efficiency and task effectiveness in LLM-based MAS through LLM
training. Optima employs an iterative generate, rank, select, and train
paradigm with a reward function balancing task performance, token efficiency,
and communication readability. We explore various RL algorithms, including
Supervised Fine-Tuning, Direct Preference Optimization, and their hybrid
approaches, providing insights into their effectiveness-efficiency trade-offs.
We integrate Monte Carlo Tree Search-inspired techniques for DPO data
generation, treating conversation turns as tree nodes to explore diverse
interaction paths. Evaluated on common multi-agent tasks, including
information-asymmetric question answering and complex reasoning, Optima shows
consistent and substantial improvements over single-agent baselines and vanilla
MAS based on Llama 3 8B, achieving up to 2.8x performance gain with less than
10\% tokens on tasks requiring heavy information exchange. Moreover, Optima's
efficiency gains open new possibilities for leveraging inference-compute more
effectively, leading to improved inference-time scaling laws. By addressing
fundamental challenges in LLM-based MAS, Optima shows the potential towards
scalable, efficient, and effective MAS
(https://chenweize1998.github.io/optima-project-page).

---

## 18. [Scaling Up Your Kernels: Large Kernel Design in ConvNets towards
  Universal Representations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.08049)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.08049](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08049)

**Authors**: Yiyuan Zhang, Xiaohan Ding, Xiangyu Yue

**Published**: 2024-10-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Yiyuan Zhang

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ailab-cvc/unireplknet)

### Abstract

This paper proposes the paradigm of large convolutional kernels in designing
modern Convolutional Neural Networks (ConvNets). We establish that employing a
few large kernels, instead of stacking multiple smaller ones, can be a superior
design strategy. Our work introduces a set of architecture design guidelines
for large-kernel ConvNets that optimize their efficiency and performance. We
propose the UniRepLKNet architecture, which offers systematical architecture
design principles specifically crafted for large-kernel ConvNets, emphasizing
their unique ability to capture extensive spatial information without deep
layer stacking. This results in a model that not only surpasses its
predecessors with an ImageNet accuracy of 88.0%, an ADE20K mIoU of 55.6%, and a
COCO box AP of 56.4% but also demonstrates impressive scalability and
performance on various modalities such as time-series forecasting, audio, point
cloud, and video recognition. These results indicate the universal modeling
abilities of large-kernel ConvNets with faster inference speed compared with
vision transformers. Our findings reveal that large-kernel ConvNets possess
larger effective receptive fields and a higher shape bias, moving away from the
texture bias typical of smaller-kernel CNNs. All codes and models are publicly
available at https://github.com/AILab-CVC/UniRepLKNet promoting further
research and development in the community.

---

## 19. [Cheating Automatic LLM Benchmarks: Null Models Achieve High Win Rates](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.07137)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.07137](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07137)

**Authors**: Xiaosen Zheng, Tianyu Pang, Chao Du, Qian Liu, Jing Jiang, Min Lin

**Published**: 2024-10-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Qian Liu

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sail-sg/Cheating-LLM-Benchmarks)

### Abstract

Automatic LLM benchmarks, such as AlpacaEval 2.0, Arena-Hard-Auto, and
MT-Bench, have become popular for evaluating language models due to their
cost-effectiveness and scalability compared to human evaluation. Achieving high
win rates on these benchmarks can significantly boost the promotional impact of
newly released language models. This promotional benefit may motivate tricks,
such as manipulating model output length or style to game win rates, even
though several mechanisms have been developed to control length and disentangle
style to reduce gameability. Nonetheless, we show that even a "null model" that
always outputs a constant response (irrelevant to input instructions) can cheat
automatic benchmarks and achieve top-ranked win rates: an 86.5% LC win rate on
AlpacaEval 2.0; an 83.0 score on Arena-Hard-Auto; and a 9.55 score on MT-Bench.
Moreover, the crafted cheating outputs are transferable because we assume that
the instructions of these benchmarks (e.g., 805 samples of AlpacaEval 2.0) are
private and cannot be accessed. While our experiments are primarily
proof-of-concept, an adversary could use LLMs to generate more imperceptible
cheating responses, unethically benefiting from high win rates and promotional
impact. Our findings call for the development of anti-cheating mechanisms for
reliable automatic benchmarks. The code is available at
https://github.com/sail-sg/Cheating-LLM-Benchmarks.

---

## 20. [Emergent properties with repeated examples](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.07041)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.07041](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07041)

**Authors**: François Charton, Julia Kempe

**Published**: 2024-10-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Fangyuan Yu

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

We study the performance of transformers as a function of the number of
repetitions of training examples with algorithmically generated datasets. On
three problems of mathematics: the greatest common divisor, modular
multiplication, and matrix eigenvalues, we show that for a fixed number of
training steps, models trained on smaller sets of repeated examples outperform
models trained on larger sets of single-use examples. We also demonstrate that
two-set training - repeated use of a small random subset of examples, along
normal sampling on the rest of the training set - provides for faster learning
and better performance. This highlights that the benefits of repetition can
outweigh those of data diversity. These datasets and problems provide a
controlled setting to shed light on the still poorly understood interplay
between generalization and memorization in deep learning.

---

## 21. [Accelerated Preference Optimization for Large Language Model Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.06293)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.06293](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06293)

**Authors**: Jiafan He, Huizhuo Yuan, Quanquan Gu

**Published**: 2024-10-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Quanquan Gu

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has emerged as a pivotal
tool for aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences. Direct
Preference Optimization (DPO), one of the most popular approaches, formulates
RLHF as a policy optimization problem without explicitly estimating the reward
function. It overcomes the stability and efficiency issues of two-step
approaches, which typically involve first estimating the reward function and
then optimizing the policy via proximal policy optimization (PPO). Since RLHF
is essentially an optimization problem, and it is well-known that momentum
techniques can accelerate optimization both theoretically and empirically, a
natural question arises: Can RLHF be accelerated by momentum? This paper
answers this question in the affirmative. In detail, we first show that the
iterative preference optimization method can be viewed as a proximal point
method. Based on this observation, we propose a general Accelerated Preference
Optimization (APO) framework, which unifies many existing preference
optimization algorithms and employs Nesterov's momentum technique to speed up
the alignment of LLMs. Theoretically, we demonstrate that APO can achieve a
faster convergence rate than the standard iterative preference optimization
methods, including DPO and Self-Play Preference Optimization (SPPO).
Empirically, we show the superiority of APO over DPO, iterative DPO, and other
strong baselines for RLHF on the AlpacaEval 2.0 benchmark.

---

## 22. [Vector-ICL: In-context Learning with Continuous Vector Representations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.05629)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.05629](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05629)

**Authors**: Yufan Zhuang, Chandan Singh, Liyuan Liu, Jingbo Shang, Jianfeng Gao

**Published**: 2024-10-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Yufan Zhuang

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/EvanZhuang/vector-icl)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable in-context learning (ICL)
capabilities on textual data. We explore whether these capabilities can be
extended to continuous vectors from diverse domains, obtained from black-box
pretrained encoders. By aligning input data with an LLM's embedding space
through lightweight projectors, we observe that LLMs can effectively process
and learn from these projected vectors, which we term Vector-ICL. In
particular, we find that pretraining projectors with general language modeling
objectives enables Vector-ICL, while task-specific finetuning further enhances
performance. In our experiments across various tasks and modalities, including
text reconstruction, numerical function regression, text classification,
summarization, molecule captioning, time-series classification, graph
classification, and fMRI decoding, Vector-ICL often surpasses both few-shot ICL
and domain-specific model or tuning. We further conduct analyses and case
studies, indicating the potential of LLMs to process vector representations
beyond traditional token-based paradigms.

---

## 23. [MotionGS: Exploring Explicit Motion Guidance for Deformable 3D Gaussian
  Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.07707)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.07707](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07707)

**Authors**: Ruijie Zhu, Yanzhe Liang, Hanzhi Chang, Jiacheng Deng, Wenfei Yang, Tianzhu Zhang, Yongdong Zhang

**Published**: 2024-10-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Ruijie Zhu

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/RuijieZhu94/MotionGS) | [Project Page](https://ruijiezhu94.github.io/MotionGS_page)

### Abstract

Dynamic scene reconstruction is a long-term challenge in the field of 3D
vision. Recently, the emergence of 3D Gaussian Splatting has provided new
insights into this problem. Although subsequent efforts rapidly extend static
3D Gaussian to dynamic scenes, they often lack explicit constraints on object
motion, leading to optimization difficulties and performance degradation. To
address the above issues, we propose a novel deformable 3D Gaussian splatting
framework called MotionGS, which explores explicit motion priors to guide the
deformation of 3D Gaussians. Specifically, we first introduce an optical flow
decoupling module that decouples optical flow into camera flow and motion flow,
corresponding to camera movement and object motion respectively. Then the
motion flow can effectively constrain the deformation of 3D Gaussians, thus
simulating the motion of dynamic objects. Additionally, a camera pose
refinement module is proposed to alternately optimize 3D Gaussians and camera
poses, mitigating the impact of inaccurate camera poses. Extensive experiments
in the monocular dynamic scenes validate that MotionGS surpasses
state-of-the-art methods and exhibits significant superiority in both
qualitative and quantitative results. Project page:
https://ruijiezhu94.github.io/MotionGS_page

---

## 24. [Data Advisor: Dynamic Data Curation for Safety Alignment of Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.05269)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.05269](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05269)

**Authors**: Fei Wang, Ninareh Mehrabi, Palash Goyal, Rahul Gupta, Kai-Wei Chang, Aram Galstyan

**Published**: 2024-10-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Fei Wang

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/feiwang96/Data-Advisor)

### Abstract

Data is a crucial element in large language model (LLM) alignment. Recent
studies have explored using LLMs for efficient data collection. However,
LLM-generated data often suffers from quality issues, with underrepresented or
absent aspects and low-quality datapoints. To address these problems, we
propose Data Advisor, an enhanced LLM-based method for generating data that
takes into account the characteristics of the desired dataset. Starting from a
set of pre-defined principles in hand, Data Advisor monitors the status of the
generated data, identifies weaknesses in the current dataset, and advises the
next iteration of data generation accordingly. Data Advisor can be easily
integrated into existing data generation methods to enhance data quality and
coverage. Experiments on safety alignment of three representative LLMs (i.e.,
Mistral, Llama2, and Falcon) demonstrate the effectiveness of Data Advisor in
enhancing model safety against various fine-grained safety issues without
sacrificing model utility.

---

## 25. [LPZero: Language Model Zero-cost Proxy Search from Zero](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.04808)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.04808](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.04808)

**Authors**: Peijie Dong, Lujun Li, Xiang Liu, Zhenheng Tang, Xuebo Liu, Qiang Wang, Xiaowen Chu

**Published**: 2024-10-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by PeijieDong

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

In spite of the outstanding performance, Neural Architecture Search (NAS) is
criticized for massive computation. Recently, Zero-shot NAS has emerged as a
promising approach by exploiting Zero-cost (ZC) proxies, which markedly reduce
computational demands. Despite this, existing ZC proxies heavily rely on expert
knowledge and incur significant trial-and-error costs. Particularly in NLP
tasks, most existing ZC proxies fail to surpass the performance of the naive
baseline. To address these challenges, we introduce a novel framework,
LPZero, which is the first to automatically design ZC proxies for
various tasks, achieving higher ranking consistency than human-designed
proxies. Specifically, we model the ZC proxy as a symbolic equation and
incorporate a unified proxy search space that encompasses existing ZC proxies,
which are composed of a predefined set of mathematical symbols. To
heuristically search for the best ZC proxy, LPZero incorporates genetic
programming to find the optimal symbolic composition. We propose a
Rule-based Pruning Strategy (RPS), which preemptively eliminates
unpromising proxies, thereby mitigating the risk of proxy degradation.
Extensive experiments on FlexiBERT, GPT-2, and LLaMA-7B demonstrate LPZero's
superior ranking ability and performance on downstream tasks compared to
current approaches.

---

## 26. [Zebra: In-Context and Generative Pretraining for Solving Parametric PDEs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.03437)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.03437](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.03437)

**Authors**: Louis Serrano, Armand Kassaï Koupaï, Thomas X Wang, Pierre Erbacher, Patrick Gallinari

**Published**: 2024-10-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-11 by Louis Serrano

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Solving time-dependent parametric partial differential equations (PDEs) is
challenging, as models must adapt to variations in parameters such as
coefficients, forcing terms, and boundary conditions. Data-driven neural
solvers either train on data sampled from the PDE parameters distribution in
the hope that the model generalizes to new instances or rely on gradient-based
adaptation and meta-learning to implicitly encode the dynamics from
observations. This often comes with increased inference complexity. Inspired by
the in-context learning capabilities of large language models (LLMs), we
introduce Zebra, a novel generative auto-regressive transformer designed to
solve parametric PDEs without requiring gradient adaptation at inference. By
leveraging in-context information during both pre-training and inference, Zebra
dynamically adapts to new tasks by conditioning on input sequences that
incorporate context trajectories or preceding states. This approach enables
Zebra to flexibly handle arbitrarily sized context inputs and supports
uncertainty quantification through the sampling of multiple solution
trajectories. We evaluate Zebra across a variety of challenging PDE scenarios,
demonstrating its adaptability, robustness, and superior performance compared
to existing approaches.

---
