# Daily Papers - 2024-10-18

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-10-18)

Total papers: 34

---

## 1. [Movie Gen: A Cast of Media Foundation Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13720)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13720](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13720)

**Authors**: Adam Polyak, Amit Zohar, Andrew Brown, Andros Tjandra, Animesh Sinha, Ann Lee, Apoorv Vyas, Bowen Shi, Chih-Yao Ma, Ching-Yao Chuang, David Yan, Dhruv Choudhary, Dingkang Wang, Geet Sethi, Guan Pang, Haoyu Ma, Ishan Misra, Ji Hou, Jialiang Wang, Kiran Jagadeesh, Kunpeng Li, Luxin Zhang, Mannat Singh, Mary Williamson, Matt Le, Matthew Yu, Mitesh Kumar Singh, Peizhao Zhang, Peter Vajda, Quentin Duval, Rohit Girdhar, Roshan Sumbaly, Sai Saketh Rambhatla, Sam Tsai, Samaneh Azadi, Samyak Datta, Sanyuan Chen, Sean Bell, Sharadh Ramaswamy, Shelly Sheynin, Siddharth Bhattacharya, Simran Motwani, Tao Xu, Tianhe Li, Tingbo Hou, Wei-Ning Hsu, Xi Yin, Xiaoliang Dai, Yaniv Taigman, Yaqiao Luo, Yen-Cheng Liu, Yi-Chiao Wu, Yue Zhao, Yuval Kirstain, Zecheng He, Zijian He, Albert Pumarola, Ali Thabet, Artsiom Sanakoyeu, Arun Mallya, Baishan Guo, Boris Araya, Breena Kerr, Carleigh Wood, Ce Liu, Cen Peng, Dimitry Vengertsev, Edgar Schonfeld, Elliot Blanchard, Felix Juefei-Xu, Fraylie Nord, Jeff Liang, John Hoffman, Jonas Kohler, Kaolin Fire, Karthik Sivakumar, Lawrence Chen, Licheng Yu, Luya Gao, Markos Georgopoulos, Rashel Moritz, Sara K. Sampson, Shikai Li, Simone Parmeggiani, Steve Fine, Tara Fowler, Vladan Petrovic, Yuming Du

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 100

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/moviegenbench)

### Abstract

We present Movie Gen, a cast of foundation models that generates
high-quality, 1080p HD videos with different aspect ratios and synchronized
audio. We also show additional capabilities such as precise instruction-based
video editing and generation of personalized videos based on a user's image.
Our models set a new state-of-the-art on multiple tasks: text-to-video
synthesis, video personalization, video editing, video-to-audio generation, and
text-to-audio generation. Our largest video generation model is a 30B parameter
transformer trained with a maximum context length of 73K video tokens,
corresponding to a generated video of 16 seconds at 16 frames-per-second. We
show multiple technical innovations and simplifications on the architecture,
latent spaces, training objectives and recipes, data curation, evaluation
protocols, parallelization techniques, and inference optimizations that allow
us to reap the benefits of scaling pre-training data, model size, and training
compute for training large scale media generation models. We hope this paper
helps the research community to accelerate progress and innovation in media
generation models. All videos from this paper are available at
https://go.fb.me/MovieGenResearchVideos.

---

## 2. [MixEval-X: Any-to-Any Evaluations from Real-World Data Mixtures](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13754)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13754](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13754)

**Authors**: Jinjie Ni, Yifan Song, Deepanway Ghosal, Bo Li, David Junhao Zhang, Xiang Yue, Fuzhao Xue, Zian Zheng, Kaichen Zhang, Mahir Shah, Kabir Jain, Yang You, Michael Shieh

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Jinjie Ni

**Upvotes**: 76

### Abstract

Perceiving and generating diverse modalities are crucial for AI models to
effectively learn from and engage with real-world signals, necessitating
reliable evaluations for their development. We identify two major issues in
current evaluations: (1) inconsistent standards, shaped by different
communities with varying protocols and maturity levels; and (2) significant
query, grading, and generalization biases. To address these, we introduce
MixEval-X, the first any-to-any real-world benchmark designed to optimize and
standardize evaluations across input and output modalities. We propose
multi-modal benchmark mixture and adaptation-rectification pipelines to
reconstruct real-world task distributions, ensuring evaluations generalize
effectively to real-world use cases. Extensive meta-evaluations show our
approach effectively aligns benchmark samples with real-world task
distributions and the model rankings correlate strongly with that of
crowd-sourced real-world evaluations (up to 0.98). We provide comprehensive
leaderboards to rerank existing models and organizations and offer insights to
enhance understanding of multi-modal evaluations and inform future research.

---

## 3. [JudgeBench: A Benchmark for Evaluating LLM-based Judges](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.12784)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.12784](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12784)

**Authors**: Sijun Tan, Siyuan Zhuang, Kyle Montgomery, William Y. Tang, Alejandro Cuadron, Chenguang Wang, Raluca Ada Popa, Ion Stoica

**Published**: 2024-10-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Sijun Tan

**Upvotes**: 47

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ScalerLab/JudgeBench)

### Abstract

LLM-based judges have emerged as a scalable alternative to human evaluation
and are increasingly used to assess, compare, and improve models. However, the
reliability of LLM-based judges themselves is rarely scrutinized. As LLMs
become more advanced, their responses grow more sophisticated, requiring
stronger judges to evaluate them. Existing benchmarks primarily focus on a
judge's alignment with human preferences, but often fail to account for more
challenging tasks where crowdsourced human preference is a poor indicator of
factual and logical correctness. To address this, we propose a novel evaluation
framework to objectively evaluate LLM-based judges. Based on this framework, we
propose JudgeBench, a benchmark for evaluating LLM-based judges on challenging
response pairs spanning knowledge, reasoning, math, and coding. JudgeBench
leverages a novel pipeline for converting existing difficult datasets into
challenging response pairs with preference labels reflecting objective
correctness. Our comprehensive evaluation on a collection of prompted judges,
fine-tuned judges, multi-agent judges, and reward models shows that JudgeBench
poses a significantly greater challenge than previous benchmarks, with many
strong models (e.g., GPT-4o) performing just slightly better than random
guessing. Overall, JudgeBench offers a reliable platform for assessing
increasingly advanced LLM-based judges. Data and code are available at
https://github.com/ScalerLab/JudgeBench .

---

## 4. [Fluid: Scaling Autoregressive Text-to-image Generative Models with
  Continuous Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13863)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13863](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13863)

**Authors**: Lijie Fan, Tianhong Li, Siyang Qin, Yuanzhen Li, Chen Sun, Michael Rubinstein, Deqing Sun, Kaiming He, Yonglong Tian

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Yonglong Tian

**Upvotes**: 37

### Abstract

Scaling up autoregressive models in vision has not proven as beneficial as in
large language models. In this work, we investigate this scaling problem in the
context of text-to-image generation, focusing on two critical factors: whether
models use discrete or continuous tokens, and whether tokens are generated in a
random or fixed raster order using BERT- or GPT-like transformer architectures.
Our empirical results show that, while all models scale effectively in terms of
validation loss, their evaluation performance -- measured by FID, GenEval
score, and visual quality -- follows different trends. Models based on
continuous tokens achieve significantly better visual quality than those using
discrete tokens. Furthermore, the generation order and attention mechanisms
significantly affect the GenEval score: random-order models achieve notably
better GenEval scores compared to raster-order models. Inspired by these
findings, we train Fluid, a random-order autoregressive model on continuous
tokens. Fluid 10.5B model achieves a new state-of-the-art zero-shot FID of 6.16
on MS-COCO 30K, and 0.69 overall score on the GenEval benchmark. We hope our
findings and results will encourage future efforts to further bridge the
scaling gap between vision and language models.

---

## 5. [Janus: Decoupling Visual Encoding for Unified Multimodal Understanding
  and Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13848)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13848](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13848)

**Organization**: DeepSeek

**Authors**: Chengyue Wu, Xiaokang Chen, Zhiyu Wu, Yiyang Ma, Xingchao Liu, Zizheng Pan, Wen Liu, Zhenda Xie, Xingkai Yu, Chong Ruan, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Wu Chengyue

**Upvotes**: 35

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce Janus, an autoregressive framework that unifies
multimodal understanding and generation. Prior research often relies on a
single visual encoder for both tasks, such as Chameleon. However, due to the
differing levels of information granularity required by multimodal
understanding and generation, this approach can lead to suboptimal performance,
particularly in multimodal understanding. To address this issue, we decouple
visual encoding into separate pathways, while still leveraging a single,
unified transformer architecture for processing. The decoupling not only
alleviates the conflict between the visual encoder's roles in understanding and
generation, but also enhances the framework's flexibility. For instance, both
the multimodal understanding and generation components can independently select
their most suitable encoding methods. Experiments show that Janus surpasses
previous unified model and matches or exceeds the performance of task-specific
models. The simplicity, high flexibility, and effectiveness of Janus make it a
strong candidate for next-generation unified multimodal models.

---

## 6. [Roadmap towards Superhuman Speech Understanding using Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13268)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13268](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13268)

**Authors**: Fan Bu, Yuhao Zhang, Xidong Wang, Benyou Wang, Qun Liu, Haizhou Li

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Fan Bu

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

The success of large language models (LLMs) has prompted efforts to integrate
speech and audio data, aiming to create general foundation models capable of
processing both textual and non-textual inputs. Recent advances, such as
GPT-4o, highlight the potential for end-to-end speech LLMs, which preserves
non-semantic information and world knowledge for deeper speech understanding.
To guide the development of speech LLMs, we propose a five-level roadmap,
ranging from basic automatic speech recognition (ASR) to advanced superhuman
models capable of integrating non-semantic information with abstract acoustic
knowledge for complex tasks. Moreover, we design a benchmark, SAGI Bechmark,
that standardizes critical aspects across various tasks in these five levels,
uncovering challenges in using abstract acoustic knowledge and completeness of
capability. Our findings reveal gaps in handling paralinguistic cues and
abstract acoustic knowledge, and we offer future directions. This paper
outlines a roadmap for advancing speech LLMs, introduces a benchmark for
evaluation, and provides key insights into their current limitations and
potential.

---

## 7. [MobA: A Two-Level Agent System for Efficient Mobile Task Automation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13757)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13757](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13757)

**Authors**: Zichen Zhu, Hao Tang, Yansi Li, Kunyao Lan, Yixuan Jiang, Hao Zhou, Yixiao Wang, Situo Zhang, Liangtai Sun, Lu Chen, Kai Yu

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Zichen Zhu

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OpenDFM/MobA)

### Abstract

Current mobile assistants are limited by dependence on system APIs or
struggle with complex user instructions and diverse interfaces due to
restricted comprehension and decision-making abilities. To address these
challenges, we propose MobA, a novel Mobile phone Agent powered by multimodal
large language models that enhances comprehension and planning capabilities
through a sophisticated two-level agent architecture. The high-level Global
Agent (GA) is responsible for understanding user commands, tracking history
memories, and planning tasks. The low-level Local Agent (LA) predicts detailed
actions in the form of function calls, guided by sub-tasks and memory from the
GA. Integrating a Reflection Module allows for efficient task completion and
enables the system to handle previously unseen complex tasks. MobA demonstrates
significant improvements in task execution efficiency and completion rate in
real-life evaluations, underscoring the potential of MLLM-empowered mobile
assistants.

---

## 8. [WorldCuisines: A Massive-Scale Benchmark for Multilingual and
  Multicultural Visual Question Answering on Global Cuisines](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.12705)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.12705](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12705)

**Authors**: Genta Indra Winata, Frederikus Hudi, Patrick Amadeus Irawan, David Anugraha, Rifki Afina Putri, Yutong Wang, Adam Nohejl, Ubaidillah Ariq Prathama, Nedjma Ousidhoum, Afifa Amriani, Anar Rzayev, Anirban Das, Ashmari Pramodya, Aulia Adila, Bryan Wilie, Candy Olivia Mawalim, Ching Lam Cheng, Daud Abolade, Emmanuele Chersoni, Enrico Santus, Fariz Ikhwantri, Garry Kuwanto, Hanyang Zhao, Haryo Akbarianto Wibowo, Holy Lovenia, Jan Christian Blaise Cruz, Jan Wira Gotama Putra, Junho Myung, Lucky Susanto, Maria Angelica Riera Machin, Marina Zhukova, Michael Anugraha, Muhammad Farid Adilazuarda, Natasha Santosa, Peerat Limkonchotiwat, Raj Dabre, Rio Alexander Audino, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Shi-Xiong Zhang, Stephanie Yulia Salim, Yi Zhou, Yinxuan Gui, David Ifeoluwa Adelani, En-Shiun Annie Lee, Shogo Okada, Ayu Purwarianti, Alham Fikri Aji, Taro Watanabe, Derry Tanti Wijaya, Alice Oh, Chong-Wah Ngo

**Published**: 2024-10-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Genta Indra Winata

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/worldcuisines/worldcuisines)

### Abstract

Vision Language Models (VLMs) often struggle with culture-specific knowledge,
particularly in languages other than English and in underrepresented cultural
contexts. To evaluate their understanding of such knowledge, we introduce
WorldCuisines, a massive-scale benchmark for multilingual and multicultural,
visually grounded language understanding. This benchmark includes a visual
question answering (VQA) dataset with text-image pairs across 30 languages and
dialects, spanning 9 language families and featuring over 1 million data
points, making it the largest multicultural VQA benchmark to date. It includes
tasks for identifying dish names and their origins. We provide evaluation
datasets in two sizes (12k and 60k instances) alongside a training dataset (1
million instances). Our findings show that while VLMs perform better with
correct location context, they struggle with adversarial contexts and
predicting specific regional cuisines and languages. To support future
research, we release a knowledge base with annotated food entries and images
along with the VQA data.

---

## 9. [Harnessing Webpage UIs for Text-Rich Visual Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13824)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13824](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13824)

**Authors**: Junpeng Liu, Tianyue Ou, Yifan Song, Yuxiao Qu, Wai Lam, Chenyan Xiong, Wenhu Chen, Graham Neubig, Xiang Yue

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Xiang Yue

**Upvotes**: 30

### Abstract

Text-rich visual understanding-the ability to process environments where
dense textual content is integrated with visuals-is crucial for multimodal
large language models (MLLMs) to interact effectively with structured
environments. To enhance this capability, we propose synthesizing general
multimodal instructions from webpage UIs using text-based large language models
(LLMs). Despite lacking direct visual input, text-based LLMs are able to
process structured text representations from webpage accessibility trees. These
instructions are then paired with UI screenshots to train multimodal models. We
introduce MultiUI, a dataset containing 7.3 million samples from 1 million
websites, covering diverse multimodal tasks and UI layouts. Models trained on
MultiUI not only excel in web UI tasks-achieving up to a 48\% improvement on
VisualWebBench and a 19.1\% boost in action accuracy on a web agent dataset
Mind2Web-but also generalize surprisingly well to non-web UI tasks and even to
non-UI domains, such as document understanding, OCR, and chart interpretation.
These results highlight the broad applicability of web UI data for advancing
text-rich visual understanding across various scenarios.

---

## 10. [DreamVideo-2: Zero-Shot Subject-Driven Video Customization with Precise
  Motion Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13830)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13830](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13830)

**Authors**: Yujie Wei, Shiwei Zhang, Hangjie Yuan, Xiang Wang, Haonan Qiu, Rui Zhao, Yutong Feng, Feng Liu, Zhizhong Huang, Jiaxin Ye, Yingya Zhang, Hongming Shan

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Yujie Wei

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

Recent advances in customized video generation have enabled users to create
videos tailored to both specific subjects and motion trajectories. However,
existing methods often require complicated test-time fine-tuning and struggle
with balancing subject learning and motion control, limiting their real-world
applications. In this paper, we present DreamVideo-2, a zero-shot video
customization framework capable of generating videos with a specific subject
and motion trajectory, guided by a single image and a bounding box sequence,
respectively, and without the need for test-time fine-tuning. Specifically, we
introduce reference attention, which leverages the model's inherent
capabilities for subject learning, and devise a mask-guided motion module to
achieve precise motion control by fully utilizing the robust motion signal of
box masks derived from bounding boxes. While these two components achieve their
intended functions, we empirically observe that motion control tends to
dominate over subject learning. To address this, we propose two key designs: 1)
the masked reference attention, which integrates a blended latent mask modeling
scheme into reference attention to enhance subject representations at the
desired positions, and 2) a reweighted diffusion loss, which differentiates the
contributions of regions inside and outside the bounding boxes to ensure a
balance between subject and motion control. Extensive experimental results on a
newly curated dataset demonstrate that DreamVideo-2 outperforms
state-of-the-art methods in both subject customization and motion control. The
dataset, code, and models will be made publicly available.

---

## 11. [MMed-RAG: Versatile Multimodal RAG System for Medical Vision Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13085)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13085](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13085)

**Authors**: Peng Xia, Kangyu Zhu, Haoran Li, Tianze Wang, Weijia Shi, Sheng Wang, Linjun Zhang, James Zou, Huaxiu Yao

**Published**: 2024-10-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Peng Xia

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/richard-peng-xia/mmed-rag)

### Abstract

Artificial Intelligence (AI) has demonstrated significant potential in
healthcare, particularly in disease diagnosis and treatment planning. Recent
progress in Medical Large Vision-Language Models (Med-LVLMs) has opened up new
possibilities for interactive diagnostic tools. However, these models often
suffer from factual hallucination, which can lead to incorrect diagnoses.
Fine-tuning and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) have emerged as methods to
address these issues. However, the amount of high-quality data and distribution
shifts between training data and deployment data limit the application of
fine-tuning methods. Although RAG is lightweight and effective, existing
RAG-based approaches are not sufficiently general to different medical domains
and can potentially cause misalignment issues, both between modalities and
between the model and the ground truth. In this paper, we propose a versatile
multimodal RAG system, MMed-RAG, designed to enhance the factuality of
Med-LVLMs. Our approach introduces a domain-aware retrieval mechanism, an
adaptive retrieved contexts selection method, and a provable RAG-based
preference fine-tuning strategy. These innovations make the RAG process
sufficiently general and reliable, significantly improving alignment when
introducing retrieved contexts. Experimental results across five medical
datasets (involving radiology, ophthalmology, pathology) on medical VQA and
report generation demonstrate that MMed-RAG can achieve an average improvement
of 43.8% in the factual accuracy of Med-LVLMs. Our data and code are available
in https://github.com/richard-peng-xia/MMed-RAG.

---

## 12. [MoH: Multi-Head Attention as Mixture-of-Head Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.11842)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.11842](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11842)

**Authors**: Peng Jin, Bo Zhu, Li Yuan, Shuicheng Yan

**Published**: 2024-10-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Peng Jin

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/skyworkai/moh)

### Abstract

In this work, we upgrade the multi-head attention mechanism, the core of the
Transformer model, to improve efficiency while maintaining or surpassing the
previous accuracy level. We show that multi-head attention can be expressed in
the summation form. Drawing on the insight that not all attention heads hold
equal significance, we propose Mixture-of-Head attention (MoH), a new
architecture that treats attention heads as experts in the Mixture-of-Experts
(MoE) mechanism. MoH has two significant advantages: First, MoH enables each
token to select the appropriate attention heads, enhancing inference efficiency
without compromising accuracy or increasing the number of parameters. Second,
MoH replaces the standard summation in multi-head attention with a weighted
summation, introducing flexibility to the attention mechanism and unlocking
extra performance potential. Extensive experiments on ViT, DiT, and LLMs
demonstrate that MoH outperforms multi-head attention by using only 50%-90% of
the attention heads. Moreover, we demonstrate that pre-trained multi-head
attention models, such as LLaMA3-8B, can be further continue-tuned into our MoH
models. Notably, MoH-LLaMA3-8B achieves an average accuracy of 64.0% across 14
benchmarks, outperforming LLaMA3-8B by 2.4% by utilizing only 75% of the
attention heads. We believe the proposed MoH is a promising alternative to
multi-head attention and provides a strong foundation for developing advanced
and efficient attention-based models.

---

## 13. [BenTo: Benchmark Task Reduction with In-Context Transferability](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13804)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13804](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13804)

**Authors**: Hongyu Zhao, Ming Li, Lichao Sun, Tianyi Zhou

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Tianyi Zhou

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tianyi-lab/bento)

### Abstract

Evaluating large language models (LLMs) is costly: it requires the generation
and examination of LLM outputs on a large-scale benchmark of various tasks.
This paper investigates how to efficiently reduce the tasks used to benchmark
LLMs without affecting the evaluation quality. Our study reveals that task
transferability and relevance provide critical information to identify the most
representative subset of tasks via optimizing a facility location function. We
propose a practically efficient metric for estimating the transferability
between two tasks via in-context learning (ICL). By analyzing the pairwise
transferability, we can reduce tasks in a modern LLM benchmark (e.g., MMLU or
FLAN) to 5% while inducing only a <4% difference to the evaluation on the
original benchmark. Compared to prior works, our method is training-free,
gradient-free, and highly efficient requiring ICL only.

---

## 14. [PopAlign: Diversifying Contrasting Patterns for a More Comprehensive
  Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13785)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13785](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13785)

**Authors**: Zekun Moore Wang, Shawn Wang, Kang Zhu, Jiaheng Liu, Ke Xu, Jie Fu, Wangchunshu Zhou, Wenhao Huang

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Zekun Moore Wang

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Alignment of large language models (LLMs) involves training models on
preference-contrastive output pairs to adjust their responses according to
human preferences. To obtain such contrastive pairs, traditional methods like
RLHF and RLAIF rely on limited contrasting patterns, such as varying model
variants or decoding temperatures. This singularity leads to two issues: (1)
alignment is not comprehensive; and thereby (2) models are susceptible to
jailbreaking attacks. To address these issues, we investigate how to construct
more comprehensive and diversified contrasting patterns to enhance preference
data (RQ1) and verify the impact of the diversification of contrasting patterns
on model alignment (RQ2). For RQ1, we propose PopAlign, a framework that
integrates diversified contrasting patterns across the prompt, model, and
pipeline levels, introducing six contrasting strategies that do not require
additional feedback labeling procedures. Regarding RQ2, we conduct thorough
experiments demonstrating that PopAlign significantly outperforms existing
methods, leading to more comprehensive alignment.

---

## 15. [A Comparative Study on Reasoning Patterns of OpenAI's o1 Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13639)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13639](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13639)

**Authors**: Siwei Wu, Zhongyuan Peng, Xinrun Du, Tuney Zheng, Minghao Liu, Jialong Wu, Jiachen Ma, Yizhi Li, Jian Yang, Wangchunshu Zhou, Qunshu Lin, Junbo Zhao, Zhaoxiang Zhang, Wenhao Huang, Ge Zhang, Chenghua Lin, J. H. Liu

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by SiweiWu

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Open-Source-O1/o1_Reasoning_Patterns_Study)

### Abstract

Enabling Large Language Models (LLMs) to handle a wider range of complex
tasks (e.g., coding, math) has drawn great attention from many researchers. As
LLMs continue to evolve, merely increasing the number of model parameters
yields diminishing performance improvements and heavy computational costs.
Recently, OpenAI's o1 model has shown that inference strategies (i.e.,
Test-time Compute methods) can also significantly enhance the reasoning
capabilities of LLMs. However, the mechanisms behind these methods are still
unexplored. In our work, to investigate the reasoning patterns of o1, we
compare o1 with existing Test-time Compute methods (BoN, Step-wise BoN, Agent
Workflow, and Self-Refine) by using OpenAI's GPT-4o as a backbone on general
reasoning benchmarks in three domains (i.e., math, coding, commonsense
reasoning). Specifically, first, our experiments show that the o1 model has
achieved the best performance on most datasets. Second, as for the methods of
searching diverse responses (e.g., BoN), we find the reward models' capability
and the search space both limit the upper boundary of these methods. Third, as
for the methods that break the problem into many sub-problems, the Agent
Workflow has achieved better performance than Step-wise BoN due to the
domain-specific system prompt for planning better reasoning processes. Fourth,
it is worth mentioning that we have summarized six reasoning patterns of o1,
and provided a detailed analysis on several reasoning benchmarks.

---

## 16. [A Unified View of Delta Parameter Editing in Post-Trained Large-Scale
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13841)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13841](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13841)

**Authors**: Qiaoyu Tang, Le Yu, Bowen Yu, Hongyu Lin, Keming Lu, Yaojie Lu, Xianpei Han, Le Sun

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Bowen Yu

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Post-training has emerged as a crucial paradigm for adapting large-scale
pre-trained models to various tasks, whose effects are fully reflected by delta
parameters (i.e., the disparity between post-trained and pre-trained
parameters). While numerous studies have explored delta parameter properties
via operations like pruning, quantization, low-rank approximation, and
extrapolation, a unified framework for systematically examining these
characteristics has been lacking. In this paper, we propose a novel perspective
based on Riemann sum approximation of the loss function to elucidate delta
parameter editing operations. Our analysis categorizes existing methods into
three classes based on their post-editing performance: competitive, decreased,
and improved, explaining how they are expressed by the Riemann sum
approximation term and how they alter the model performance. Extensive
experiments on both visual and language models, including ViT, LLaMA 3, Qwen 2,
and Mistral, corroborate our theoretical findings. Furthermore, we introduce
extensions to existing techniques like DARE and BitDelta, highlighting their
limitations in leveraging the properties of delta parameters and reorganizing
them into general expressions to enhance the applicability and effectiveness of
delta parameter editing in post-trained models.

---

## 17. [FlatQuant: Flatness Matters for LLM Quantization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.09426)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.09426](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09426)

**Authors**: Yuxuan Sun, Ruikang Liu, Haoli Bai, Han Bao, Kang Zhao, Yuening Li, Jiaxin Hu, Xianzhi Yu, Lu Hou, Chun Yuan, Xin Jiang, Wulong Liu, Jun Yao

**Published**: 2024-10-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by ruikang liu

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ruikangliu/flatquant)

### Abstract

Recently, quantization has been widely used for the compression and
acceleration of large language models~(LLMs). Due to the outliers in LLMs, it
is crucial to flatten weights and activations to minimize quantization error
with the equally spaced quantization points. Prior research explores various
pre-quantization transformations to suppress outliers, such as per-channel
scaling and Hadamard transformation. However, we observe that these transformed
weights and activations can still remain steep and outspread. In this paper, we
propose FlatQuant (Fast and Learnable Affine Transformation), a new
post-training quantization approach to enhance flatness of weights and
activations. Our approach identifies optimal affine transformations tailored to
each linear layer, calibrated in hours via a lightweight objective. To reduce
runtime overhead, we apply Kronecker decomposition to the transformation
matrices, and fuse all operations in FlatQuant into a single kernel. Extensive
experiments show that FlatQuant sets up a new state-of-the-art quantization
benchmark. For instance, it achieves less than 1% accuracy drop for
W4A4 quantization on the LLaMA-3-70B model, surpassing SpinQuant by
7.5%. For inference latency, FlatQuant reduces the slowdown induced
by pre-quantization transformation from 0.26x of QuaRot to merely
0.07x, bringing up to 2.3x speedup for prefill and
1.7x speedup for decoding, respectively. Code is available at:
https://github.com/ruikangliu/FlatQuant.

---

## 18. [VidPanos: Generative Panoramic Videos from Casual Panning Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13832)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13832](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13832)

**Authors**: Jingwei Ma, Erika Lu, Roni Paiss, Shiran Zada, Aleksander Holynski, Tali Dekel, Brian Curless, Michael Rubinstein, Forrester Cole

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [Project Page](https://vidpanos.github.io/)

### Abstract

Panoramic image stitching provides a unified, wide-angle view of a scene that
extends beyond the camera's field of view. Stitching frames of a panning video
into a panoramic photograph is a well-understood problem for stationary scenes,
but when objects are moving, a still panorama cannot capture the scene. We
present a method for synthesizing a panoramic video from a casually-captured
panning video, as if the original video were captured with a wide-angle camera.
We pose panorama synthesis as a space-time outpainting problem, where we aim to
create a full panoramic video of the same length as the input video. Consistent
completion of the space-time volume requires a powerful, realistic prior over
video content and motion, for which we adapt generative video models. Existing
generative models do not, however, immediately extend to panorama completion,
as we show. We instead apply video generation as a component of our panorama
synthesis system, and demonstrate how to exploit the strengths of the models
while minimizing their limitations. Our system can create video panoramas for a
range of in-the-wild scenes including people, vehicles, and flowing water, as
well as stationary background features.

---

## 19. [Can MLLMs Understand the Deep Implication Behind Chinese Images?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13854)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13854](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13854)

**Authors**: Chenhao Zhang, Xi Feng, Yuelin Bai, Xinrun Du, Jinchang Hou, Kaixin Deng, Guangzeng Han, Qinrui Li, Bingli Wang, Jiaheng Liu, Xingwei Qu, Yifei Zhang, Qixuan Zhao, Yiming Liang, Ziqiang Liu, Feiteng Fang, Min Yang, Wenhao Huang, Chenghua Lin, Ge Zhang, Shiwen Ni

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Chenhao(Leo) Zhang

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MING-ZCH/CII-Bench) | [Project Page](https://cii-bench.github.io/)

### Abstract

As the capabilities of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) continue to
improve, the need for higher-order capability evaluation of MLLMs is
increasing. However, there is a lack of work evaluating MLLM for higher-order
perception and understanding of Chinese visual content. To fill the gap, we
introduce the **C**hinese **I**mage **I**mplication understanding
**Bench**mark, **CII-Bench**, which aims to assess the higher-order perception
and understanding capabilities of MLLMs for Chinese images. CII-Bench stands
out in several ways compared to existing benchmarks. Firstly, to ensure the
authenticity of the Chinese context, images in CII-Bench are sourced from the
Chinese Internet and manually reviewed, with corresponding answers also
manually crafted. Additionally, CII-Bench incorporates images that represent
Chinese traditional culture, such as famous Chinese traditional paintings,
which can deeply reflect the model's understanding of Chinese traditional
culture. Through extensive experiments on CII-Bench across multiple MLLMs, we
have made significant findings. Initially, a substantial gap is observed
between the performance of MLLMs and humans on CII-Bench. The highest accuracy
of MLLMs attains 64.4%, where as human accuracy averages 78.2%, peaking at an
impressive 81.0%. Subsequently, MLLMs perform worse on Chinese traditional
culture images, suggesting limitations in their ability to understand
high-level semantics and lack a deep knowledge base of Chinese traditional
culture. Finally, it is observed that most models exhibit enhanced accuracy
when image emotion hints are incorporated into the prompts. We believe that
CII-Bench will enable MLLMs to gain a better understanding of Chinese semantics
and Chinese-specific images, advancing the journey towards expert artificial
general intelligence (AGI). Our project is publicly available at
https://cii-bench.github.io/.

---

## 20. [Do LLMs Have Political Correctness? Analyzing Ethical Biases and
  Jailbreak Vulnerabilities in AI Systems](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13334)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13334](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13334)

**Authors**: Isack Lee, Haebin Seong

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Haebin Seong

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Isaac-theori/PCJailbreak)

### Abstract

Although large language models (LLMs) demonstrate impressive proficiency in
various tasks, they present potential safety risks, such as `jailbreaks', where
malicious inputs can coerce LLMs into generating harmful content. To address
these issues, many LLM developers have implemented various safety measures to
align these models. This alignment involves several techniques, including data
filtering during pre-training, supervised fine-tuning, reinforcement learning
from human feedback, and red-teaming exercises. These methods often introduce
deliberate and intentional biases similar to Political Correctness (PC) to
ensure the ethical behavior of LLMs. In this paper, we delve into the
intentional biases injected into LLMs for safety purposes and examine methods
to circumvent these safety alignment techniques. Notably, these intentional
biases result in a jailbreaking success rate in GPT-4o models that differs by
20% between non-binary and cisgender keywords and by 16% between white and
black keywords, even when the other parts of the prompts are identical. We
introduce the concept of PCJailbreak, highlighting the inherent risks posed by
these safety-induced biases. Additionally, we propose an efficient defense
method PCDefense, which prevents jailbreak attempts by injecting defense
prompts prior to generation. PCDefense stands as an appealing alternative to
Guard Models, such as Llama-Guard, that require additional inference cost after
text generation. Our findings emphasize the urgent need for LLM developers to
adopt a more responsible approach when designing and implementing safety
measures.

---

## 21. [Retrospective Learning from Interactions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13852)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13852](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13852)

**Authors**: Zizhao Chen, Mustafa Omer Gul, Yiwei Chen, Gloria Geng, Anne Wu, Yoav Artzi

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Yoav Artzi

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Multi-turn interactions between large language models (LLMs) and users
naturally include implicit feedback signals. If an LLM responds in an
unexpected way to an instruction, the user is likely to signal it by rephrasing
the request, expressing frustration, or pivoting to an alternative task. Such
signals are task-independent and occupy a relatively constrained subspace of
language, allowing the LLM to identify them even if it fails on the actual
task. This creates an avenue for continually learning from interactions without
additional annotations. We introduce ReSpect, a method to learn from such
signals in past interactions via retrospection. We deploy ReSpect in a new
multimodal interaction scenario, where humans instruct an LLM to solve an
abstract reasoning task with a combinatorial solution space. Through thousands
of interactions with humans, we show how ReSpect gradually improves task
completion rate from 31% to 82%, all without any external annotation.

---

## 22. [Remember, Retrieve and Generate: Understanding Infinite Visual Concepts
  as Your Personalized Assistant](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13360)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13360](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13360)

**Authors**: Haoran Hao, Jiaming Han, Changsheng Li, Yu-Feng Li, Xiangyu Yue

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Haoran Hao

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Hoar012/RAP-MLLM) | [Project Page](https://hoar012.github.io/RAP-Project/)

### Abstract

The development of large language models (LLMs) has significantly enhanced
the capabilities of multimodal LLMs (MLLMs) as general assistants. However,
lack of user-specific knowledge still restricts their application in human's
daily life. In this paper, we introduce the Retrieval Augmented Personalization
(RAP) framework for MLLMs' personalization. Starting from a general MLLM, we
turn it into a personalized assistant in three steps. (a) Remember: We design a
key-value database to store user-related information, e.g., user's name, avatar
and other attributes. (b) Retrieve: When the user initiates a conversation, RAP
will retrieve relevant information from the database using a multimodal
retriever. (c) Generate: The input query and retrieved concepts' information
are fed into MLLMs to generate personalized, knowledge-augmented responses.
Unlike previous methods, RAP allows real-time concept editing via updating the
external database. To further improve generation quality and alignment with
user-specific information, we design a pipeline for data collection and create
a specialized dataset for personalized training of MLLMs. Based on the dataset,
we train a series of MLLMs as personalized multimodal assistants. By
pretraining on large-scale dataset, RAP-MLLMs can generalize to infinite visual
concepts without additional finetuning. Our models demonstrate outstanding
flexibility and generation quality across a variety of tasks, such as
personalized image captioning, question answering and visual recognition. The
code, data and models are available at https://github.com/Hoar012/RAP-MLLM.

---

## 23. [Failing Forward: Improving Generative Error Correction for ASR with
  Synthetic Data and Retrieval Augmentation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13198)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13198](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13198)

**Authors**: Sreyan Ghosh, Mohammad Sadegh Rasooli, Michael Levit, Peidong Wang, Jian Xue, Dinesh Manocha, Jinyu Li

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Ghosh

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Generative Error Correction (GEC) has emerged as a powerful post-processing
method to enhance the performance of Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)
systems. However, we show that GEC models struggle to generalize beyond the
specific types of errors encountered during training, limiting their ability to
correct new, unseen errors at test time, particularly in out-of-domain (OOD)
scenarios. This phenomenon amplifies with named entities (NEs), where, in
addition to insufficient contextual information or knowledge about the NEs,
novel NEs keep emerging. To address these issues, we propose DARAG (Data- and
Retrieval-Augmented Generative Error Correction), a novel approach designed to
improve GEC for ASR in in-domain (ID) and OOD scenarios. We augment the GEC
training dataset with synthetic data generated by prompting LLMs and
text-to-speech models, thereby simulating additional errors from which the
model can learn. For OOD scenarios, we simulate test-time errors from new
domains similarly and in an unsupervised fashion. Additionally, to better
handle named entities, we introduce retrieval-augmented correction by
augmenting the input with entities retrieved from a database. Our approach is
simple, scalable, and both domain- and language-agnostic. We experiment on
multiple datasets and settings, showing that DARAG outperforms all our
baselines, achieving 8\% -- 30\% relative WER improvements in ID and 10\% --
33\% improvements in OOD settings.

---

## 24. [γ-MoD: Exploring Mixture-of-Depth Adaptation for Multimodal Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13859)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13859](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13859)

**Authors**: Yaxin Luo, Gen Luo, Jiayi Ji, Yiyi Zhou, Xiaoshuai Sun, Zhiqiang Shen, Rongrong Ji

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by YaxinLuo

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Despite the significant progress in multimodal large language models (MLLMs),
their high computational cost remains a barrier to real-world deployment.
Inspired by the mixture of depths (MoDs) in natural language processing, we aim
to address this limitation from the perspective of ``activated tokens''. Our
key insight is that if most tokens are redundant for the layer computation,
then can be skipped directly via the MoD layer. However, directly converting
the dense layers of MLLMs to MoD layers leads to substantial performance
degradation. To address this issue, we propose an innovative MoD adaptation
strategy for existing MLLMs called gamma-MoD. In gamma-MoD, a novel
metric is proposed to guide the deployment of MoDs in the MLLM, namely rank of
attention maps (ARank). Through ARank, we can effectively identify which layer
is redundant and should be replaced with the MoD layer. Based on ARank, we
further propose two novel designs to maximize the computational sparsity of
MLLM while maintaining its performance, namely shared vision-language router
and masked routing learning. With these designs, more than 90% dense layers of
the MLLM can be effectively converted to the MoD ones. To validate our method,
we apply it to three popular MLLMs, and conduct extensive experiments on 9
benchmark datasets. Experimental results not only validate the significant
efficiency benefit of gamma-MoD to existing MLLMs but also confirm its
generalization ability on various MLLMs. For example, with a minor performance
drop, i.e., -1.5%, gamma-MoD can reduce the training and inference time of
LLaVA-HR by 31.0% and 53.2%, respectively.

---

## 25. [MuVi: Video-to-Music Generation with Semantic Alignment and Rhythmic
  Synchronization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.12957)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.12957](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12957)

**Authors**: Ruiqi Li, Siqi Zheng, Xize Cheng, Ziang Zhang, Shengpeng Ji, Zhou Zhao

**Published**: 2024-10-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Siqi Zheng

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Generating music that aligns with the visual content of a video has been a
challenging task, as it requires a deep understanding of visual semantics and
involves generating music whose melody, rhythm, and dynamics harmonize with the
visual narratives. This paper presents MuVi, a novel framework that effectively
addresses these challenges to enhance the cohesion and immersive experience of
audio-visual content. MuVi analyzes video content through a specially designed
visual adaptor to extract contextually and temporally relevant features. These
features are used to generate music that not only matches the video's mood and
theme but also its rhythm and pacing. We also introduce a contrastive
music-visual pre-training scheme to ensure synchronization, based on the
periodicity nature of music phrases. In addition, we demonstrate that our
flow-matching-based music generator has in-context learning ability, allowing
us to control the style and genre of the generated music. Experimental results
show that MuVi demonstrates superior performance in both audio quality and
temporal synchronization. The generated music video samples are available at
https://muvi-v2m.github.io.

---

## 26. [MedMobile: A mobile-sized language model with expert-level clinical
  capabilities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.09019)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.09019](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09019)

**Organization**: NYU Langone Health OLAB

**Authors**: Krithik Vishwanath, Jaden Stryker, Anton Alaykin, Daniel Alexander Alber, Eric Karl Oermann

**Published**: 2024-10-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Krithik Vishwanath

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nyuolab/MedMobile)

### Abstract

Language models (LMs) have demonstrated expert-level reasoning and recall
abilities in medicine. However, computational costs and privacy concerns are
mounting barriers to wide-scale implementation. We introduce a parsimonious
adaptation of phi-3-mini, MedMobile, a 3.8 billion parameter LM capable of
running on a mobile device, for medical applications. We demonstrate that
MedMobile scores 75.7% on the MedQA (USMLE), surpassing the passing mark for
physicians (~60%), and approaching the scores of models 100 times its size. We
subsequently perform a careful set of ablations, and demonstrate that chain of
thought, ensembling, and fine-tuning lead to the greatest performance gains,
while unexpectedly retrieval augmented generation fails to demonstrate
significant improvements

---

## 27. [LoLDU: Low-Rank Adaptation via Lower-Diag-Upper Decomposition for
  Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13618)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13618](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13618)

**Authors**: Yiming Shi, Jiwei Wei, Yujia Wu, Ran Ran, Chengwei Sun, Shiyuan He, Yang Yang

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Yiming Shi

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/skddj/loldu)

### Abstract

The rapid growth of model scale has necessitated substantial computational
resources for fine-tuning. Existing approach such as Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA)
has sought to address the problem of handling the large updated parameters in
full fine-tuning. However, LoRA utilize random initialization and optimization
of low-rank matrices to approximate updated weights, which can result in
suboptimal convergence and an accuracy gap compared to full fine-tuning. To
address these issues, we propose LoLDU, a Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning
(PEFT) approach that significantly reduces trainable parameters by 2600 times
compared to regular PEFT methods while maintaining comparable performance.
LoLDU leverages Lower-Diag-Upper Decomposition (LDU) to initialize low-rank
matrices for faster convergence and orthogonality. We focus on optimizing the
diagonal matrix for scaling transformations. To the best of our knowledge,
LoLDU has the fewest parameters among all PEFT approaches. We conducted
extensive experiments across 4 instruction-following datasets, 6 natural
language understanding (NLU) datasets, 8 image classification datasets, and
image generation datasets with multiple model types (LLaMA2, RoBERTa, ViT, and
Stable Diffusion), providing a comprehensive and detailed analysis. Our
open-source code can be accessed at
https://github.com/SKDDJ/LoLDU{https://github.com/SKDDJ/LoLDU}.

---

## 28. [Open Materials 2024 (OMat24) Inorganic Materials Dataset and Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.12771)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.12771](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12771)

**Authors**: Luis Barroso-Luque, Muhammed Shuaibi, Xiang Fu, Brandon M. Wood, Misko Dzamba, Meng Gao, Ammar Rizvi, C. Lawrence Zitnick, Zachary W. Ulissi

**Published**: 2024-10-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Muhammed Shuaibi

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

The ability to discover new materials with desirable properties is critical
for numerous applications from helping mitigate climate change to advances in
next generation computing hardware. AI has the potential to accelerate
materials discovery and design by more effectively exploring the chemical space
compared to other computational methods or by trial-and-error. While
substantial progress has been made on AI for materials data, benchmarks, and
models, a barrier that has emerged is the lack of publicly available training
data and open pre-trained models. To address this, we present a Meta FAIR
release of the Open Materials 2024 (OMat24) large-scale open dataset and an
accompanying set of pre-trained models. OMat24 contains over 110 million
density functional theory (DFT) calculations focused on structural and
compositional diversity. Our EquiformerV2 models achieve state-of-the-art
performance on the Matbench Discovery leaderboard and are capable of predicting
ground-state stability and formation energies to an F1 score above 0.9 and an
accuracy of 20 meV/atom, respectively. We explore the impact of model size,
auxiliary denoising objectives, and fine-tuning on performance across a range
of datasets including OMat24, MPtraj, and Alexandria. The open release of the
OMat24 dataset and models enables the research community to build upon our
efforts and drive further advancements in AI-assisted materials science.

---

## 29. [Minimum Tuning to Unlock Long Output from LLMs with High Quality Data as
  the Key](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.10210)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.10210](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10210)

**Authors**: Yingda Chen, Xingjun Wang, Jintao Huang, Yunlin Mao, Yuze Zhao

**Published**: 2024-10-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Yingda Chen

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

As large language models rapidly evolve to support longer context, there is a
notable disparity in their capability to generate output at greater lengths.
Recent study suggests that the primary cause for this imbalance may arise from
the lack of data with long-output during alignment training. In light of this
observation, attempts are made to re-align foundation models with data that
fills the gap, which result in models capable of generating lengthy output when
instructed. In this paper, we explore the impact of data-quality in tuning a
model for long output, and the possibility of doing so from the starting points
of human-aligned (instruct or chat) models. With careful data curation, we show
that it possible to achieve similar performance improvement in our tuned
models, with only a small fraction of training data instances and compute. In
addition, we assess the generalizability of such approaches by applying our
tuning-recipes to several models. our findings suggest that, while capacities
for generating long output vary across different models out-of-the-box, our
approach to tune them with high-quality data using lite compute, consistently
yields notable improvement across all models we experimented on. We have made
public our curated dataset for tuning long-writing capability, the
implementations of model tuning and evaluation, as well as the fine-tuned
models, all of which can be openly-accessed.

---

## 30. [Long-LRM: Long-sequence Large Reconstruction Model for Wide-coverage
  Gaussian Splats](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.12781)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.12781](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12781)

**Authors**: Chen Ziwen, Hao Tan, Sai Bi, Fujun Luan, Yicong Hong, Li Fuxin, Zexiang Xu

**Published**: 2024-10-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Ziwen Chen

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/arthurhero/Long-LRM) | [Project Page](https://arthurhero.github.io/projects/llrm/)

### Abstract

We propose Long-LRM, a generalizable 3D Gaussian reconstruction model that is
capable of reconstructing a large scene from a long sequence of input images.
Specifically, our model can process 32 source images at 960x540 resolution
within only 1.3 seconds on a single A100 80G GPU. Our architecture features a
mixture of the recent Mamba2 blocks and the classical transformer blocks which
allowed many more tokens to be processed than prior work, enhanced by efficient
token merging and Gaussian pruning steps that balance between quality and
efficiency. Unlike previous feed-forward models that are limited to processing
1~4 input images and can only reconstruct a small portion of a large scene,
Long-LRM reconstructs the entire scene in a single feed-forward step. On
large-scale scene datasets such as DL3DV-140 and Tanks and Temples, our method
achieves performance comparable to optimization-based approaches while being
two orders of magnitude more efficient. Project page:
https://arthurhero.github.io/projects/llrm

---

## 31. [Toward Guidance-Free AR Visual Generation via Condition Contrastive
  Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.09347)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.09347](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09347)

**Authors**: Huayu Chen, Hang Su, Peize Sun, Jun Zhu

**Published**: 2024-10-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Hugging

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thu-ml/cca)

### Abstract

Classifier-Free Guidance (CFG) is a critical technique for enhancing the
sample quality of visual generative models. However, in autoregressive (AR)
multi-modal generation, CFG introduces design inconsistencies between language
and visual content, contradicting the design philosophy of unifying different
modalities for visual AR. Motivated by language model alignment methods, we
propose Condition Contrastive Alignment (CCA) to facilitate
guidance-free AR visual generation with high performance and analyze its
theoretical connection with guided sampling methods. Unlike guidance methods
that alter the sampling process to achieve the ideal sampling distribution, CCA
directly fine-tunes pretrained models to fit the same distribution target.
Experimental results show that CCA can significantly enhance the guidance-free
performance of all tested models with just one epoch of fine-tuning (sim 1\%
of pretraining epochs) on the pretraining dataset, on par with guided sampling
methods. This largely removes the need for guided sampling in AR visual
generation and cuts the sampling cost by half. Moreover, by adjusting training
parameters, CCA can achieve trade-offs between sample diversity and fidelity
similar to CFG. This experimentally confirms the strong theoretical connection
between language-targeted alignment and visual-targeted guidance methods,
unifying two previously independent research fields. Code and model weights:
https://github.com/thu-ml/CCA.

---

## 32. [AERO: Softmax-Only LLMs for Efficient Private Inference](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13060)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13060](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13060)

**Authors**: Nandan Kumar Jha, Brandon Reagen

**Published**: 2024-10-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Nandan Kumar Jha

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

The pervasiveness of proprietary language models has raised privacy concerns
for users' sensitive data, emphasizing the need for private inference (PI),
where inference is performed directly on encrypted inputs. However, current PI
methods face prohibitively higher communication and latency overheads,
primarily due to nonlinear operations. In this paper, we present a
comprehensive analysis to understand the role of nonlinearities in
transformer-based decoder-only language models. We introduce AERO, a four-step
architectural optimization framework that refines the existing LLM architecture
for efficient PI by systematically removing nonlinearities such as LayerNorm
and GELU and reducing FLOPs counts. For the first time, we propose a
Softmax-only architecture with significantly fewer FLOPs tailored for efficient
PI. Furthermore, we devise a novel entropy regularization technique to improve
the performance of Softmax-only models. AERO achieves up to 4.23times
communication and 1.94times latency reduction. We validate the effectiveness
of AERO by benchmarking it against the state-of-the-art.

---

## 33. [TransAgent: Transfer Vision-Language Foundation Models with
  Heterogeneous Agent Collaboration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.12183)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.12183](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12183)

**Authors**: Yiwei Guo, Shaobin Zhuang, Kunchang Li, Yu Qiao, Yali Wang

**Published**: 2024-10-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Yiwei Guo

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/markywg/transagent)

### Abstract

Vision-language foundation models (such as CLIP) have recently shown their
power in transfer learning, owing to large-scale image-text pre-training.
However, target domain data in the downstream tasks can be highly different
from the pre-training phase, which makes it hard for such a single model to
generalize well. Alternatively, there exists a wide range of expert models that
contain diversified vision and/or language knowledge pre-trained on different
modalities, tasks, networks, and datasets. Unfortunately, these models are
"isolated agents" with heterogeneous structures, and how to integrate their
knowledge for generalizing CLIP-like models has not been fully explored. To
bridge this gap, we propose a general and concise TransAgent framework, which
transports the knowledge of the isolated agents in a unified manner, and
effectively guides CLIP to generalize with multi-source knowledge distillation.
With such a distinct framework, we flexibly collaborate with 11 heterogeneous
agents to empower vision-language foundation models, without further cost in
the inference phase. Finally, our TransAgent achieves state-of-the-art
performance on 11 visual recognition datasets. Under the same low-shot setting,
it outperforms the popular CoOp with around 10% on average, and 20% on EuroSAT
which contains large domain shifts.

---

## 34. [SBI-RAG: Enhancing Math Word Problem Solving for Students through
  Schema-Based Instruction and Retrieval-Augmented Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13293)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13293](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13293)

**Authors**: Prakhar Dixit, Tim Oates

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-18 by Prakhar Dixit

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pdx97/SBI-RAG_Neurips2024)

### Abstract

Many students struggle with math word problems (MWPs), often finding it
difficult to identify key information and select the appropriate mathematical
operations.Schema-based instruction (SBI) is an evidence-based strategy that
helps students categorize problems based on their structure, improving
problem-solving accuracy. Building on this, we propose a Schema-Based
Instruction Retrieval-Augmented Generation (SBI-RAG) framework that
incorporates a large language model (LLM).Our approach emphasizes step-by-step
reasoning by leveraging schemas to guide solution generation. We evaluate its
performance on the GSM8K dataset, comparing it with GPT-4 and GPT-3.5 Turbo,
and introduce a "reasoning score" metric to assess solution quality. Our
findings suggest that SBI-RAG enhances reasoning clarity and problem-solving
accuracy, potentially providing educational benefits for students

---
