# Daily Papers - 2024-10-23

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-10-23)

Total papers: 13

---

## 1. [PyramidDrop: Accelerating Your Large Vision-Language Models via Pyramid
  Visual Redundancy Reduction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17247)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17247](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17247)

**Authors**: Long Xing, Qidong Huang, Xiaoyi Dong, Jiajie Lu, Pan Zhang, Yuhang Zang, Yuhang Cao, Conghui He, Jiaqi Wang, Feng Wu, Dahua Lin

**Published**: 2024-10-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Jiaqi Wang

**Upvotes**: 47

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/cooperx521/pyramiddrop)

### Abstract

In large vision-language models (LVLMs), images serve as inputs that carry a
wealth of information. As the idiom "A picture is worth a thousand words"
implies, representing a single image in current LVLMs can require hundreds or
even thousands of tokens. This results in significant computational costs,
which grow quadratically as input image resolution increases, thereby severely
impacting the efficiency of both training and inference. Previous approaches
have attempted to reduce the number of image tokens either before or within the
early layers of LVLMs. However, these strategies inevitably result in the loss
of crucial image information, ultimately diminishing model performance. To
address this challenge, we conduct an empirical study revealing that all visual
tokens are necessary for LVLMs in the shallow layers, and token redundancy
progressively increases in the deeper layers of the model. To this end, we
propose PyramidDrop, a visual redundancy reduction strategy for LVLMs to boost
their efficiency in both training and inference with neglectable performance
loss. Specifically, we partition the LVLM into several stages and drop part of
the image tokens at the end of each stage with a pre-defined ratio, creating
pyramid-like visual tokens across model layers. The dropping is based on a
lightweight similarity calculation with a negligible time overhead. Extensive
experiments demonstrate that PyramidDrop can achieve a 40% training time and
55% inference FLOPs acceleration of LLaVA-NeXT with comparable performance.
Besides, the PyramidDrop could also serve as a plug-and-play strategy for
inference acceleration without training, with better performance and lower
inference cost than counterparts. We hope that the insights and approach
introduced by PyramidDrop will inspire future research to further investigate
the role of image tokens in LVLMs.

---

## 2. [SpectroMotion: Dynamic 3D Reconstruction of Specular Scenes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17249)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17249](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17249)

**Authors**: Cheng-De Fan, Chen-Wei Chang, Yi-Ruei Liu, Jie-Ying Lee, Jiun-Long Huang, Yu-Chee Tseng, Yu-Lun Liu

**Published**: 2024-10-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Yu-Lun Liu

**Upvotes**: 44

**Links**: [Project Page](https://cdfan0627.github.io/spectromotion/)

### Abstract

We present SpectroMotion, a novel approach that combines 3D Gaussian
Splatting (3DGS) with physically-based rendering (PBR) and deformation fields
to reconstruct dynamic specular scenes. Previous methods extending 3DGS to
model dynamic scenes have struggled to accurately represent specular surfaces.
Our method addresses this limitation by introducing a residual correction
technique for accurate surface normal computation during deformation,
complemented by a deformable environment map that adapts to time-varying
lighting conditions. We implement a coarse-to-fine training strategy that
significantly enhances both scene geometry and specular color prediction. We
demonstrate that our model outperforms prior methods for view synthesis of
scenes containing dynamic specular objects and that it is the only existing
3DGS method capable of synthesizing photorealistic real-world dynamic specular
scenes, outperforming state-of-the-art methods in rendering complex, dynamic,
and specular scenes.

---

## 3. [Improve Vision Language Model Chain-of-thought Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.16198)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.16198](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16198)

**Authors**: Ruohong Zhang, Bowen Zhang, Yanghao Li, Haotian Zhang, Zhiqing Sun, Zhe Gan, Yinfei Yang, Ruoming Pang, Yiming Yang

**Published**: 2024-10-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Ruohong Zhang

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/riflezhang/llava-reasoner-dpo)

### Abstract

Chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning in vision language models (VLMs) is crucial
for improving interpretability and trustworthiness. However, current training
recipes lack robust CoT reasoning data, relying on datasets dominated by short
annotations with minimal rationales. In this work, we show that training VLM on
short answers does not generalize well to reasoning tasks that require more
detailed responses. To address this, we propose a two-fold approach. First, we
distill rationales from GPT-4o model to enrich the training data and fine-tune
VLMs, boosting their CoT performance. Second, we apply reinforcement learning
to further calibrate reasoning quality. Specifically, we construct positive
(correct) and negative (incorrect) pairs of model-generated reasoning chains,
by comparing their predictions with annotated short answers. Using this
pairwise data, we apply the Direct Preference Optimization algorithm to refine
the model's reasoning abilities. Our experiments demonstrate significant
improvements in CoT reasoning on benchmark datasets and better generalization
to direct answer prediction as well. This work emphasizes the importance of
incorporating detailed rationales in training and leveraging reinforcement
learning to strengthen the reasoning capabilities of VLMs.

---

## 4. [Aligning Large Language Models via Self-Steering Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17131)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17131](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17131)

**Authors**: Hao Xiang, Bowen Yu, Hongyu Lin, Keming Lu, Yaojie Lu, Xianpei Han, Le Sun, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin

**Published**: 2024-10-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Bowen Yu

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/icip-cas/sso)

### Abstract

Automated alignment develops alignment systems with minimal human
intervention. The key to automated alignment lies in providing learnable and
accurate preference signals for preference learning without human annotation.
In this paper, we introduce Self-Steering Optimization (SSO), an algorithm
that autonomously generates high-quality preference signals based on predefined
principles during iterative training, eliminating the need for manual
annotation. SSO maintains the accuracy of signals by ensuring a consistent
gap between chosen and rejected responses while keeping them both on-policy to
suit the current policy model's learning capacity. SSO can benefit the online
and offline training of the policy model, as well as enhance the training of
reward models. We validate the effectiveness of SSO with two foundation
models, Qwen2 and Llama3.1, indicating that it provides accurate, on-policy
preference signals throughout iterative training. Without any manual annotation
or external models, SSO leads to significant performance improvements across
six subjective or objective benchmarks. Besides, the preference data generated
by SSO significantly enhanced the performance of the reward model on
Rewardbench. Our work presents a scalable approach to preference optimization,
paving the way for more efficient and effective automated alignment.

---

## 5. [xGen-MM-Vid (BLIP-3-Video): You Only Need 32 Tokens to Represent a Video
  Even in VLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.16267)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.16267](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16267)

**Authors**: Michael S. Ryoo, Honglu Zhou, Shrikant Kendre, Can Qin, Le Xue, Manli Shu, Silvio Savarese, Ran Xu, Caiming Xiong, Juan Carlos Niebles

**Published**: 2024-10-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Michael Ryoo

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

We present xGen-MM-Vid (BLIP-3-Video): a multimodal language model for
videos, particularly designed to efficiently capture temporal information over
multiple frames. BLIP-3-Video takes advantage of the 'temporal encoder' in
addition to the conventional visual tokenizer, which maps a sequence of tokens
over multiple frames into a compact set of visual tokens. This enables
BLIP3-Video to use much fewer visual tokens than its competing models (e.g., 32
vs. 4608 tokens). We explore different types of temporal encoders, including
learnable spatio-temporal pooling as well as sequential models like Token
Turing Machines. We experimentally confirm that BLIP-3-Video obtains video
question-answering accuracies comparable to much larger state-of-the-art models
(e.g., 34B), while being much smaller (i.e., 4B) and more efficient by using
fewer visual tokens. The project website is at
https://www.salesforceairesearch.com/opensource/xGen-MM-Vid/index.html

---

## 6. [Mitigating Object Hallucination via Concentric Causal Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.15926)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.15926](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.15926)

**Authors**: Yun Xing, Yiheng Li, Ivan Laptev, Shijian Lu

**Published**: 2024-10-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Xing Yun

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xing0047/cca-llava)

### Abstract

Recent Large Vision Language Models (LVLMs) present remarkable zero-shot
conversational and reasoning capabilities given multimodal queries.
Nevertheless, they suffer from object hallucination, a phenomenon where LVLMs
are prone to generate textual responses not factually aligned with image
inputs. Our pilot study reveals that object hallucination is closely tied with
Rotary Position Encoding (RoPE), a widely adopted positional dependency
modeling design in existing LVLMs. Due to the long-term decay in RoPE, LVLMs
tend to hallucinate more when relevant visual cues are distant from instruction
tokens in the multimodal input sequence. Additionally, we observe a similar
effect when reversing the sequential order of visual tokens during multimodal
alignment. Our tests indicate that long-term decay in RoPE poses challenges to
LVLMs while capturing visual-instruction interactions across long distances. We
propose Concentric Causal Attention (CCA), a simple yet effective positional
alignment strategy that mitigates the impact of RoPE long-term decay in LVLMs
by naturally reducing relative distance between visual and instruction tokens.
With CCA, visual tokens can better interact with instruction tokens, thereby
enhancing model's perception capability and alleviating object hallucination.
Without bells and whistles, our positional alignment method surpasses existing
hallucination mitigation strategies by large margins on multiple object
hallucination benchmarks.

---

## 7. [MiniPLM: Knowledge Distillation for Pre-Training Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17215)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17215](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17215)

**Authors**: Yuxian Gu, Hao Zhou, Fandong Meng, Jie Zhou, Minlie Huang

**Published**: 2024-10-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Yuxian Gu

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thu-coai/miniplm)

### Abstract

Knowledge distillation (KD) is widely used to train small, high-performing
student language models (LMs) using large teacher LMs. While effective in
fine-tuning, KD during pre-training faces challenges in efficiency,
flexibility, and effectiveness. Existing methods either incur high
computational costs due to online teacher inference, require tokenization
matching between teacher and student LMs, or risk losing the difficulty and
diversity of the teacher-generated training data. To address these issues, we
propose MiniPLM, a KD framework for pre-training LMs by refining the training
data distribution with the teacher's knowledge. For efficiency, MiniPLM
performs offline teacher LM inference, allowing KD for multiple student LMs
without adding training-time costs. For flexibility, MiniPLM operates solely on
the training corpus, enabling KD across model families. For effectiveness,
MiniPLM leverages the differences between large and small LMs to enhance the
difficulty and diversity of the training data, helping student LMs acquire
versatile and sophisticated knowledge. Extensive experiments demonstrate that
MiniPLM boosts the student LMs' performance on 9 widely used downstream tasks,
improves the language modeling capabilities, and reduces pre-training
computation. The benefit of MiniPLM extends to large pre-training scales,
evidenced by the extrapolation of the scaling curves. Further analysis reveals
that MiniPLM supports KD across model families and enhances the utilization of
pre-training data. Our model, code, and data are available at
https://github.com/thu-coai/MiniPLM.

---

## 8. [LLM-based Optimization of Compound AI Systems: A Survey](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.16392)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.16392](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16392)

**Authors**: Matthieu Lin, Jenny Sheng, Andrew Zhao, Shenzhi Wang, Yang Yue, Yiran Wu, Huan Liu, Jun Liu, Gao Huang, Yong-Jin Liu

**Published**: 2024-10-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Shenzhi Wang

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

In a compound AI system, components such as an LLM call, a retriever, a code
interpreter, or tools are interconnected. The system's behavior is primarily
driven by parameters such as instructions or tool definitions. Recent
advancements enable end-to-end optimization of these parameters using an LLM.
Notably, leveraging an LLM as an optimizer is particularly efficient because it
avoids gradient computation and can generate complex code and instructions.
This paper presents a survey of the principles and emerging trends in LLM-based
optimization of compound AI systems. It covers archetypes of compound AI
systems, approaches to LLM-based end-to-end optimization, and insights into
future directions and broader impacts. Importantly, this survey uses concepts
from program analysis to provide a unified view of how an LLM optimizer is
prompted to optimize a compound AI system. The exhaustive list of paper is
provided at
https://github.com/linyuhongg/LLM-based-Optimization-of-Compound-AI-Systems.

---

## 9. [JMMMU: A Japanese Massive Multi-discipline Multimodal Understanding
  Benchmark for Culture-aware Evaluation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17250)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17250](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17250)

**Authors**: Shota Onohara, Atsuyuki Miyai, Yuki Imajuku, Kazuki Egashira, Jeonghun Baek, Xiang Yue, Graham Neubig, Kiyoharu Aizawa

**Published**: 2024-10-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Atsuyuki Miyai

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Accelerating research on Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) in non-English
languages is crucial for enhancing user experiences across broader populations.
In this paper, we introduce JMMMU (Japanese MMMU), the first large-scale
Japanese benchmark designed to evaluate LMMs on expert-level tasks based on the
Japanese cultural context. To facilitate comprehensive culture-aware
evaluation, JMMMU features two complementary subsets: (i) culture-agnostic (CA)
subset, where the culture-independent subjects (e.g., Math) are selected and
translated into Japanese, enabling one-to-one comparison with its English
counterpart MMMU; and (ii) culture-specific (CS) subset, comprising newly
crafted subjects that reflect Japanese cultural context. Using the CA subset,
we observe performance drop in many LMMs when evaluated in Japanese, which is
purely attributable to language variation. Using the CS subset, we reveal their
inadequate Japanese cultural understanding. Further, by combining both subsets,
we identify that some LMMs perform well on the CA subset but not on the CS
subset, exposing a shallow understanding of the Japanese language that lacks
depth in cultural understanding. We hope this work will not only help advance
LMM performance in Japanese but also serve as a guideline to create
high-standard, culturally diverse benchmarks for multilingual LMM development.
The project page is https://mmmu-japanese-benchmark.github.io/JMMMU/.

---

## 10. [EvoPress: Towards Optimal Dynamic Model Compression via Evolutionary
  Search](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.14649)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.14649](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.14649)

**Authors**: Oliver Sieberling, Denis Kuznedelev, Eldar Kurtic, Dan Alistarh

**Published**: 2024-10-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Oliver Sieberling

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ist-daslab/evopress)

### Abstract

The high computational costs of large language models (LLMs) have led to a
flurry of research on LLM compression, via methods such as quantization,
sparsification, or structured pruning. A new frontier in this area is given by
dynamic, non-uniform compression methods, which adjust the compression
levels (e.g., sparsity) per-block or even per-layer in order to minimize
accuracy loss, while guaranteeing a global compression threshold. Yet, current
methods rely on heuristics for identifying the "importance" of a given layer
towards the loss, based on assumptions such as error monotonicity, i.e.
that the end-to-end model compression error is proportional to the sum of
layer-wise errors. In this paper, we revisit this area, and propose a new and
general approach for dynamic compression that is provably optimal in a given
input range. We begin from the motivating observation that, in general,
error monotonicity does not hold for LLMs: compressed models with lower
sum of per-layer errors can perform worse than models with higher error
sums. To address this, we propose a new general evolutionary framework for
dynamic LLM compression called EvoPress, which has provable convergence, and
low sample and evaluation complexity. We show that these theoretical guarantees
lead to highly competitive practical performance for dynamic compression of
Llama, Mistral and Phi models. Via EvoPress, we set new state-of-the-art
results across all compression approaches: structural pruning (block/layer
dropping), unstructured sparsity, as well as quantization with dynamic
bitwidths. Our code is available at https://github.com/IST-DASLab/EvoPress.

---

## 11. [Math Neurosurgery: Isolating Language Models' Math Reasoning Abilities
  Using Only Forward Passes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.16930)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.16930](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16930)

**Authors**: Bryan R. Christ, Zack Gottesman, Jonathan Kropko, Thomas Hartvigsen

**Published**: 2024-10-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Bryan Christ

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bryanchrist/mathneuro)

### Abstract

Math reasoning is a highly active area of Large Language Model (LLM) research
because it is a hallmark of artificial intelligence. However, few works have
explored how math reasoning is encoded within LLM parameters and if it is a
skill that can be isolated within a model. Doing so could allow targeted
intervention to improve math performance without altering non-math behavior and
foster understanding of how models encode math reasoning. We introduce Math
Neurosurgery (MathNeuro), a method for isolating math-specific parameters in
LLMs using only forward passes. MathNeuro builds on existing work by using
weights and activations to calculate parameter importance, but isolates
math-specific parameters by removing those important for general language
tasks. Pruning parameters MathNeuro identifies deletes a LLM's math reasoning
ability without destroying its general language ability. Scaling these
parameters by a small constant improves a pretrained or instruction-tuned LLM's
performance by 4-17% on GSM8K while leaving non-math behavior unaltered.
MathNeuro is also data efficient: most of its effectiveness holds when
identifying math-specific parameters using a single sample. MathNeuro
highlights the potential for future work to intervene on math-specific
parameters.

---

## 12. [3DGS-Enhancer: Enhancing Unbounded 3D Gaussian Splatting with
  View-consistent 2D Diffusion Priors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.16266)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.16266](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16266)

**Authors**: Xi Liu, Chaoyi Zhou, Siyu Huang

**Published**: 2024-10-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Liu

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [Project Page](https://xiliu8006.github.io/3DGS-Enhancer-project)

### Abstract

Novel-view synthesis aims to generate novel views of a scene from multiple
input images or videos, and recent advancements like 3D Gaussian splatting
(3DGS) have achieved notable success in producing photorealistic renderings
with efficient pipelines. However, generating high-quality novel views under
challenging settings, such as sparse input views, remains difficult due to
insufficient information in under-sampled areas, often resulting in noticeable
artifacts. This paper presents 3DGS-Enhancer, a novel pipeline for enhancing
the representation quality of 3DGS representations. We leverage 2D video
diffusion priors to address the challenging 3D view consistency problem,
reformulating it as achieving temporal consistency within a video generation
process. 3DGS-Enhancer restores view-consistent latent features of rendered
novel views and integrates them with the input views through a spatial-temporal
decoder. The enhanced views are then used to fine-tune the initial 3DGS model,
significantly improving its rendering performance. Extensive experiments on
large-scale datasets of unbounded scenes demonstrate that 3DGS-Enhancer yields
superior reconstruction performance and high-fidelity rendering results
compared to state-of-the-art methods. The project webpage is
https://xiliu8006.github.io/3DGS-Enhancer-project .

---

## 13. [Frontiers in Intelligent Colonoscopy](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17241)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17241](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17241)

**Authors**: Ge-Peng Ji, Jingyi Liu, Peng Xu, Nick Barnes, Fahad Shahbaz Khan, Salman Khan, Deng-Ping Fan

**Published**: 2024-10-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-23 by Daniel Ji

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ai4colonoscopy/intelliscope)

### Abstract

Colonoscopy is currently one of the most sensitive screening methods for
colorectal cancer. This study investigates the frontiers of intelligent
colonoscopy techniques and their prospective implications for multimodal
medical applications. With this goal, we begin by assessing the current
data-centric and model-centric landscapes through four tasks for colonoscopic
scene perception, including classification, detection, segmentation, and
vision-language understanding. This assessment enables us to identify
domain-specific challenges and reveals that multimodal research in colonoscopy
remains open for further exploration. To embrace the coming multimodal era, we
establish three foundational initiatives: a large-scale multimodal instruction
tuning dataset ColonINST, a colonoscopy-designed multimodal language model
ColonGPT, and a multimodal benchmark. To facilitate ongoing monitoring of this
rapidly evolving field, we provide a public website for the latest updates:
https://github.com/ai4colonoscopy/IntelliScope.

---
