# Daily Papers - 2024-10-24

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-10-24)

Total papers: 13

---

## 1. [MIA-DPO: Multi-Image Augmented Direct Preference Optimization For Large
  Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17637)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17637](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17637)

**Authors**: Ziyu Liu, Yuhang Zang, Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Yuhang Cao, Haodong Duan, Conghui He, Yuanjun Xiong, Dahua Lin, Jiaqi Wang

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Jiaqi Wang

**Upvotes**: 35

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/liuziyu77/mia-dpo)

### Abstract

Visual preference alignment involves training Large Vision-Language Models
(LVLMs) to predict human preferences between visual inputs. This is typically
achieved by using labeled datasets of chosen/rejected pairs and employing
optimization algorithms like direct preference optimization (DPO). Existing
visual alignment methods, primarily designed for single-image scenarios,
struggle to effectively handle the complexity of multi-image tasks due to the
scarcity of diverse training data and the high cost of annotating
chosen/rejected pairs. We present Multi-Image Augmented Direct Preference
Optimization (MIA-DPO), a visual preference alignment approach that effectively
handles multi-image inputs. MIA-DPO mitigates the scarcity of diverse
multi-image training data by extending single-image data with unrelated images
arranged in grid collages or pic-in-pic formats, significantly reducing the
costs associated with multi-image data annotations. Our observation reveals
that attention values of LVLMs vary considerably across different images. We
use attention values to identify and filter out rejected responses the model
may have mistakenly focused on. Our attention-aware selection for constructing
the chosen/rejected pairs without relying on (i) human annotation, (ii) extra
data, and (iii) external models or APIs. MIA-DPO is compatible with various
architectures and outperforms existing methods on five multi-image benchmarks,
achieving an average performance boost of 3.0% on LLaVA-v1.5 and 4.3% on the
recent InternLM-XC2.5. Moreover, MIA-DPO has a minimal effect on the model's
ability to understand single images.

---

## 2. [LongVU: Spatiotemporal Adaptive Compression for Long Video-Language
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17434)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17434](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17434)

**Authors**: Xiaoqian Shen, Yunyang Xiong, Changsheng Zhao, Lemeng Wu, Jun Chen, Chenchen Zhu, Zechun Liu, Fanyi Xiao, Balakrishnan Varadarajan, Florian Bordes, Zhuang Liu, Hu Xu, Hyunwoo J. Kim, Bilge Soran, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi, Mohamed Elhoseiny, Vikas Chandra

**Published**: 2024-10-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Xiaoqian Shen

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Vision-CAIR/LongVU)

### Abstract

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have shown promising progress in
understanding and analyzing video content. However, processing long videos
remains a significant challenge constrained by LLM's context size. To address
this limitation, we propose LongVU, a spatiotemporal adaptive compression
mechanism thats reduces the number of video tokens while preserving visual
details of long videos. Our idea is based on leveraging cross-modal query and
inter-frame dependencies to adaptively reduce temporal and spatial redundancy
in videos. Specifically, we leverage DINOv2 features to remove redundant frames
that exhibit high similarity. Then we utilize text-guided cross-modal query for
selective frame feature reduction. Further, we perform spatial token reduction
across frames based on their temporal dependencies. Our adaptive compression
strategy effectively processes a large number of frames with little visual
information loss within given context length. Our LongVU consistently surpass
existing methods across a variety of video understanding benchmarks, especially
on hour-long video understanding tasks such as VideoMME and MLVU. Given a
light-weight LLM, our LongVU also scales effectively into a smaller size with
state-of-the-art video understanding performance.

---

## 3. [WorldSimBench: Towards Video Generation Models as World Simulators](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18072)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18072](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18072)

**Authors**: Yiran Qin, Zhelun Shi, Jiwen Yu, Xijun Wang, Enshen Zhou, Lijun Li, Zhenfei Yin, Xihui Liu, Lu Sheng, Jing Shao, Lei Bai, Wanli Ouyang, Ruimao Zhang

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Zhoues

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Recent advancements in predictive models have demonstrated exceptional
capabilities in predicting the future state of objects and scenes. However, the
lack of categorization based on inherent characteristics continues to hinder
the progress of predictive model development. Additionally, existing benchmarks
are unable to effectively evaluate higher-capability, highly embodied
predictive models from an embodied perspective. In this work, we classify the
functionalities of predictive models into a hierarchy and take the first step
in evaluating World Simulators by proposing a dual evaluation framework called
WorldSimBench. WorldSimBench includes Explicit Perceptual Evaluation and
Implicit Manipulative Evaluation, encompassing human preference assessments
from the visual perspective and action-level evaluations in embodied tasks,
covering three representative embodied scenarios: Open-Ended Embodied
Environment, Autonomous, Driving, and Robot Manipulation. In the Explicit
Perceptual Evaluation, we introduce the HF-Embodied Dataset, a video assessment
dataset based on fine-grained human feedback, which we use to train a Human
Preference Evaluator that aligns with human perception and explicitly assesses
the visual fidelity of World Simulators. In the Implicit Manipulative
Evaluation, we assess the video-action consistency of World Simulators by
evaluating whether the generated situation-aware video can be accurately
translated into the correct control signals in dynamic environments. Our
comprehensive evaluation offers key insights that can drive further innovation
in video generation models, positioning World Simulators as a pivotal
advancement toward embodied artificial intelligence.

---

## 4. [Scaling Diffusion Language Models via Adaptation from Autoregressive
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17891)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17891](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17891)

**Authors**: Shansan Gong, Shivam Agarwal, Yizhe Zhang, Jiacheng Ye, Lin Zheng, Mukai Li, Chenxin An, Peilin Zhao, Wei Bi, Jiawei Han, Hao Peng, Lingpeng Kong

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Mukai Li

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/HKUNLP/DiffuLLaMA)

### Abstract

Diffusion Language Models (DLMs) have emerged as a promising new paradigm for
text generative modeling, potentially addressing limitations of autoregressive
(AR) models. However, current DLMs have been studied at a smaller scale
compared to their AR counterparts and lack fair comparison on language modeling
benchmarks. Additionally, training diffusion models from scratch at scale
remains challenging. Given the prevalence of open-source AR language models, we
propose adapting these models to build text diffusion models. We demonstrate
connections between AR and diffusion modeling objectives and introduce a simple
continual pre-training approach for training diffusion models. Through
systematic evaluation on language modeling, reasoning, and commonsense
benchmarks, we show that we can convert AR models ranging from 127M to 7B
parameters (GPT2 and LLaMA) into diffusion models DiffuGPT and DiffuLLaMA,
using less than 200B tokens for training. Our experimental results reveal that
these models outperform earlier DLMs and are competitive with their AR
counterparts. We release a suite of DLMs (with 127M, 355M, and 7B parameters)
capable of generating fluent text, performing in-context learning, filling in
the middle without prompt re-ordering, and following instructions
https://github.com/HKUNLP/DiffuLLaMA.

---

## 5. [Scalable Ranked Preference Optimization for Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18013)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18013](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18013)

**Authors**: Shyamgopal Karthik, Huseyin Coskun, Zeynep Akata, Sergey Tulyakov, Jian Ren, Anil Kag

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Shyamgopal Karthik

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [Project Page](https://snap-research.github.io/RankDPO/)

### Abstract

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) has emerged as a powerful approach to
align text-to-image (T2I) models with human feedback. Unfortunately, successful
application of DPO to T2I models requires a huge amount of resources to collect
and label large-scale datasets, e.g., millions of generated paired images
annotated with human preferences. In addition, these human preference datasets
can get outdated quickly as the rapid improvements of T2I models lead to higher
quality images. In this work, we investigate a scalable approach for collecting
large-scale and fully synthetic datasets for DPO training. Specifically, the
preferences for paired images are generated using a pre-trained reward
function, eliminating the need for involving humans in the annotation process,
greatly improving the dataset collection efficiency. Moreover, we demonstrate
that such datasets allow averaging predictions across multiple models and
collecting ranked preferences as opposed to pairwise preferences. Furthermore,
we introduce RankDPO to enhance DPO-based methods using the ranking feedback.
Applying RankDPO on SDXL and SD3-Medium models with our synthetically generated
preference dataset ``Syn-Pic'' improves both prompt-following (on benchmarks
like T2I-Compbench, GenEval, and DPG-Bench) and visual quality (through user
studies). This pipeline presents a practical and scalable solution to develop
better preference datasets to enhance the performance of text-to-image models.

---

## 6. [DynamicCity: Large-Scale LiDAR Generation from Dynamic Scenes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18084)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18084](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18084)

**Authors**: Hengwei Bian, Lingdong Kong, Haozhe Xie, Liang Pan, Yu Qiao, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Haozhe Xie

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/3DTopia/DynamicCity) | [Project Page](https://dynamic-city.github.io/)

### Abstract

LiDAR scene generation has been developing rapidly recently. However,
existing methods primarily focus on generating static and single-frame scenes,
overlooking the inherently dynamic nature of real-world driving environments.
In this work, we introduce DynamicCity, a novel 4D LiDAR generation framework
capable of generating large-scale, high-quality LiDAR scenes that capture the
temporal evolution of dynamic environments. DynamicCity mainly consists of two
key models. 1) A VAE model for learning HexPlane as the compact 4D
representation. Instead of using naive averaging operations, DynamicCity
employs a novel Projection Module to effectively compress 4D LiDAR features
into six 2D feature maps for HexPlane construction, which significantly
enhances HexPlane fitting quality (up to 12.56 mIoU gain). Furthermore, we
utilize an Expansion & Squeeze Strategy to reconstruct 3D feature volumes in
parallel, which improves both network training efficiency and reconstruction
accuracy than naively querying each 3D point (up to 7.05 mIoU gain, 2.06x
training speedup, and 70.84% memory reduction). 2) A DiT-based diffusion model
for HexPlane generation. To make HexPlane feasible for DiT generation, a Padded
Rollout Operation is proposed to reorganize all six feature planes of the
HexPlane as a squared 2D feature map. In particular, various conditions could
be introduced in the diffusion or sampling process, supporting versatile 4D
generation applications, such as trajectory- and command-driven generation,
inpainting, and layout-conditioned generation. Extensive experiments on the
CarlaSC and Waymo datasets demonstrate that DynamicCity significantly
outperforms existing state-of-the-art 4D LiDAR generation methods across
multiple metrics. The code will be released to facilitate future research.

---

## 7. [M-RewardBench: Evaluating Reward Models in Multilingual Settings](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.15522)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.15522](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.15522)

**Authors**: Srishti Gureja, Lester James V. Miranda, Shayekh Bin Islam, Rishabh Maheshwary, Drishti Sharma, Gusti Winata, Nathan Lambert, Sebastian Ruder, Sara Hooker, Marzieh Fadaee

**Published**: 2024-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Shayekh Islam

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Cohere-Labs-Community/m-rewardbench)

### Abstract

Reward models (RMs) have driven the state-of-the-art performance of LLMs
today by enabling the integration of human feedback into the language modeling
process. However, RMs are primarily trained and evaluated in English, and their
capabilities in multilingual settings remain largely understudied. In this
work, we conduct a systematic evaluation of several reward models in
multilingual settings. We first construct the first-of-its-kind multilingual RM
evaluation benchmark, M-RewardBench, consisting of 2.87k preference instances
for 23 typologically diverse languages, that tests the chat, safety, reasoning,
and translation capabilities of RMs. We then rigorously evaluate a wide range
of reward models on M-RewardBench, offering fresh insights into their
performance across diverse languages. We identify a significant gap in RMs'
performances between English and non-English languages and show that RM
preferences can change substantially from one language to another. We also
present several findings on how different multilingual aspects impact RM
performance. Specifically, we show that the performance of RMs is improved with
improved translation quality. Similarly, we demonstrate that the models exhibit
better performance for high-resource languages. We release M-RewardBench
dataset and the codebase in this study to facilitate a better understanding of
RM evaluation in multilingual settings.

---

## 8. [Lightweight Neural App Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17883)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17883](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17883)

**Authors**: Filippos Christianos, Georgios Papoudakis, Thomas Coste, Jianye Hao, Jun Wang, Kun Shao

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Fangyuan Yu

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

This paper introduces a novel mobile phone control architecture, termed ``app
agents", for efficient interactions and controls across various Android apps.
The proposed Lightweight Multi-modal App Control (LiMAC) takes as input a
textual goal and a sequence of past mobile observations, such as screenshots
and corresponding UI trees, to generate precise actions. To address the
computational constraints inherent to smartphones, within LiMAC, we introduce a
small Action Transformer (AcT) integrated with a fine-tuned vision-language
model (VLM) for real-time decision-making and task execution. We evaluate LiMAC
on two open-source mobile control datasets, demonstrating the superior
performance of our small-form-factor approach against fine-tuned versions of
open-source VLMs, such as Florence2 and Qwen2-VL. It also significantly
outperforms prompt engineering baselines utilising closed-source foundation
models like GPT-4o. More specifically, LiMAC increases the overall action
accuracy by up to 19% compared to fine-tuned VLMs, and up to 42% compared to
prompt-engineering baselines.

---

## 9. [ARKit LabelMaker: A New Scale for Indoor 3D Scene Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13924)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13924](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13924)

**Authors**: Guangda Ji, Silvan Weder, Francis Engelmann, Marc Pollefeys, Hermann Blum

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Hermann Blum

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/cvg/labelmaker) | [Project Page](https://labelmaker.org/)

### Abstract

The performance of neural networks scales with both their size and the amount
of data they have been trained on. This is shown in both language and image
generation. However, this requires scaling-friendly network architectures as
well as large-scale datasets. Even though scaling-friendly architectures like
transformers have emerged for 3D vision tasks, the GPT-moment of 3D vision
remains distant due to the lack of training data. In this paper, we introduce
ARKit LabelMaker, the first large-scale, real-world 3D dataset with dense
semantic annotations. Specifically, we complement ARKitScenes dataset with
dense semantic annotations that are automatically generated at scale. To this
end, we extend LabelMaker, a recent automatic annotation pipeline, to serve the
needs of large-scale pre-training. This involves extending the pipeline with
cutting-edge segmentation models as well as making it robust to the challenges
of large-scale processing. Further, we push forward the state-of-the-art
performance on ScanNet and ScanNet200 dataset with prevalent 3D semantic
segmentation models, demonstrating the efficacy of our generated dataset.

---

## 10. [TP-Eval: Tap Multimodal LLMs' Potential in Evaluation by Customizing
  Prompts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18071)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18071](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18071)

**Authors**: Yuxuan Xie, Tianhua Li, Wenqi Shao, Kaipeng Zhang

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by kaipeng

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Recently, multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have received much
attention for their impressive capabilities. The evaluation of MLLMs is
becoming critical to analyzing attributes of MLLMs and providing valuable
insights. However, current benchmarks overlook the problem of prompt
sensitivity - minor prompt variations may lead to significant performance
fluctuations. Thus, inappropriate prompts may obscure the models' capabilities,
underestimating the models' performance. Moreover, different models have
different preferences for different prompts, and thus, using the same prompt
for all models will cause evaluation bias. This paper analyzes this deficiency
in existing benchmarks and further introduces a new evaluation framework named
TP-Eval, which introduces a prompt customization method to reduce evaluation
biases and tap models' potential. TP-Eval will rewrite the original prompts to
different customized prompts for different models. In particular, we propose
some well-designed modules for prompt customization tailored to the scenario of
MLLM evaluation. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our
approach to uncovering models' capabilities, and TP-Eval should benefit the
community in developing more comprehensive and convincing MLLM evaluation
benchmarks.

---

## 11. [MedINST: Meta Dataset of Biomedical Instructions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13458)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13458](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13458)

**Authors**: Wenhan Han, Meng Fang, Zihan Zhang, Yu Yin, Zirui Song, Ling Chen, Mykola Pechenizkiy, Qingyu Chen

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Zirui Song

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aialt/medinst)

### Abstract

The integration of large language model (LLM) techniques in the field of
medical analysis has brought about significant advancements, yet the scarcity
of large, diverse, and well-annotated datasets remains a major challenge.
Medical data and tasks, which vary in format, size, and other parameters,
require extensive preprocessing and standardization for effective use in
training LLMs. To address these challenges, we introduce MedINST, the Meta
Dataset of Biomedical Instructions, a novel multi-domain, multi-task
instructional meta-dataset. MedINST comprises 133 biomedical NLP tasks and over
7 million training samples, making it the most comprehensive biomedical
instruction dataset to date. Using MedINST as the meta dataset, we curate
MedINST32, a challenging benchmark with different task difficulties aiming to
evaluate LLMs' generalization ability. We fine-tune several LLMs on MedINST and
evaluate on MedINST32, showcasing enhanced cross-task generalization.

---

## 12. [LVSM: A Large View Synthesis Model with Minimal 3D Inductive Bias](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17242)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17242](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17242)

**Authors**: Haian Jin, Hanwen Jiang, Hao Tan, Kai Zhang, Sai Bi, Tianyuan Zhang, Fujun Luan, Noah Snavely, Zexiang Xu

**Published**: 2024-10-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by Haian Jin

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/haian-jin/LVSM) | [Project Page](https://haian-jin.github.io/projects/LVSM/)

### Abstract

We propose the Large View Synthesis Model (LVSM), a novel transformer-based
approach for scalable and generalizable novel view synthesis from sparse-view
inputs. We introduce two architectures: (1) an encoder-decoder LVSM, which
encodes input image tokens into a fixed number of 1D latent tokens, functioning
as a fully learned scene representation, and decodes novel-view images from
them; and (2) a decoder-only LVSM, which directly maps input images to
novel-view outputs, completely eliminating intermediate scene representations.
Both models bypass the 3D inductive biases used in previous methods -- from 3D
representations (e.g., NeRF, 3DGS) to network designs (e.g., epipolar
projections, plane sweeps) -- addressing novel view synthesis with a fully
data-driven approach. While the encoder-decoder model offers faster inference
due to its independent latent representation, the decoder-only LVSM achieves
superior quality, scalability, and zero-shot generalization, outperforming
previous state-of-the-art methods by 1.5 to 3.5 dB PSNR. Comprehensive
evaluations across multiple datasets demonstrate that both LVSM variants
achieve state-of-the-art novel view synthesis quality. Notably, our models
surpass all previous methods even with reduced computational resources (1-2
GPUs). Please see our website for more details:
https://haian-jin.github.io/projects/LVSM/ .

---

## 13. [Steering Your Generalists: Improving Robotic Foundation Models via Value
  Guidance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.13816)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.13816](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13816)

**Authors**: Mitsuhiko Nakamoto, Oier Mees, Aviral Kumar, Sergey Levine

**Published**: 2024-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-24 by JB D.

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nakamotoo/v-gps) | [Project Page](https://nakamotoo.github.io/V-GPS)

### Abstract

Large, general-purpose robotic policies trained on diverse demonstration
datasets have been shown to be remarkably effective both for controlling a
variety of robots in a range of different scenes, and for acquiring broad
repertoires of manipulation skills. However, the data that such policies are
trained on is generally of mixed quality -- not only are human-collected
demonstrations unlikely to perform the task perfectly, but the larger the
dataset is, the harder it is to curate only the highest quality examples. It
also remains unclear how optimal data from one embodiment is for training on
another embodiment. In this paper, we present a general and broadly applicable
approach that enhances the performance of such generalist robot policies at
deployment time by re-ranking their actions according to a value function
learned via offline RL. This approach, which we call Value-Guided Policy
Steering (V-GPS), is compatible with a wide range of different generalist
policies, without needing to fine-tune or even access the weights of the
policy. We show that the same value function can improve the performance of
five different state-of-the-art policies with different architectures, even
though they were trained on distinct datasets, attaining consistent performance
improvement on multiple robotic platforms across a total of 12 tasks. Code and
videos can be found at: https://nakamotoo.github.io/V-GPS

---
