# Daily Papers - 2024-10-25

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-10-25)

Total papers: 29

---

## 1. [Breaking the Memory Barrier: Near Infinite Batch Size Scaling for
  Contrastive Loss](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17243)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17243](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17243)

**Authors**: Zesen Cheng, Hang Zhang, Kehan Li, Sicong Leng, Zhiqiang Hu, Fei Wu, Deli Zhao, Xin Li, Lidong Bing

**Published**: 2024-10-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by 

**Upvotes**: 92

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/damo-nlp-sg/inf-clip)

### Abstract

Contrastive loss is a powerful approach for representation learning, where
larger batch sizes enhance performance by providing more negative samples to
better distinguish between similar and dissimilar data. However, scaling batch
sizes is constrained by the quadratic growth in GPU memory consumption,
primarily due to the full instantiation of the similarity matrix. To address
this, we propose a tile-based computation strategy that partitions the
contrastive loss calculation into arbitrary small blocks, avoiding full
materialization of the similarity matrix. Furthermore, we introduce a
multi-level tiling strategy to leverage the hierarchical structure of
distributed systems, employing ring-based communication at the GPU level to
optimize synchronization and fused kernels at the CUDA core level to reduce I/O
overhead. Experimental results show that the proposed method scales batch sizes
to unprecedented levels. For instance, it enables contrastive training of a
CLIP-ViT-L/14 model with a batch size of 4M or 12M using 8 or 32 A800 80GB
without sacrificing any accuracy. Compared to SOTA memory-efficient solutions,
it achieves a two-order-of-magnitude reduction in memory while maintaining
comparable speed. The code will be made publicly available.

---

## 2. [Can Knowledge Editing Really Correct Hallucinations?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.16251)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.16251](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16251)

**Authors**: Baixiang Huang, Canyu Chen, Xiongxiao Xu, Ali Payani, Kai Shu

**Published**: 2024-10-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Canyu Chen

**Upvotes**: 55

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/llm-editing/HalluEditBench)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) suffer from hallucinations, referring to the
non-factual information in generated content, despite their superior capacities
across tasks. Meanwhile, knowledge editing has been developed as a new popular
paradigm to correct the erroneous factual knowledge encoded in LLMs with the
advantage of avoiding retraining from scratch. However, one common issue of
existing evaluation datasets for knowledge editing is that they do not ensure
LLMs actually generate hallucinated answers to the evaluation questions before
editing. When LLMs are evaluated on such datasets after being edited by
different techniques, it is hard to directly adopt the performance to assess
the effectiveness of different knowledge editing methods in correcting
hallucinations. Thus, the fundamental question remains insufficiently
validated: Can knowledge editing really correct hallucinations in LLMs? We
proposed HalluEditBench to holistically benchmark knowledge editing methods in
correcting real-world hallucinations. First, we rigorously construct a massive
hallucination dataset with 9 domains, 26 topics and more than 6,000
hallucinations. Then, we assess the performance of knowledge editing methods in
a holistic way on five dimensions including Efficacy, Generalization,
Portability, Locality, and Robustness. Through HalluEditBench, we have provided
new insights into the potentials and limitations of different knowledge editing
methods in correcting hallucinations, which could inspire future improvements
and facilitate the progress in the field of knowledge editing.

---

## 3. [LOGO -- Long cOntext aliGnment via efficient preference Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18533)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18533](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18533)

**Authors**: Zecheng Tang, Zechen Sun, Juntao Li, Qiaoming Zhu, Min Zhang

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Zecheng Tang

**Upvotes**: 43

### Abstract

Long-context models(LCMs) have shown great potential in processing long input
sequences(even more than 100M tokens) conveniently and effectively. With
significant progress, recent research has pointed out that LCMs can accurately
locate token-level salient information within the context. Yet, the generation
performance of these LCMs is far from satisfactory and might result in
misaligned responses, such as hallucinations. To enhance the generation
capability of LCMs, existing works have investigated the effects of data size
and quality for both pre-training and instruction tuning. Though achieving
meaningful improvement, previous methods fall short in either effectiveness or
efficiency. In this paper, we introduce LOGO(Long cOntext aliGnment via
efficient preference Optimization), a training strategy that first introduces
preference optimization for long-context alignment. To overcome the GPU
memory-bound issue caused by the long sequence, LOGO employs a reference-free
preference optimization strategy and adopts a position synthesis method to
construct the training data. By training with only 0.3B data on a single
8timesA800 GPU machine for 16 hours, LOGO allows the Llama-3-8B-Instruct-80K
model to achieve comparable performance with GPT-4 in real-world long-context
tasks while preserving the model's original capabilities on other tasks, e.g.,
language modeling and MMLU. Moreover, LOGO can extend the model's context
window size while enhancing its generation performance.

---

## 4. [Unleashing Reasoning Capability of LLMs via Scalable Question Synthesis
  from Scratch](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18693)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18693](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18693)

**Authors**: Yuyang Ding, Xinyu Shi, Xiaobo Liang, Juntao Li, Qiaoming Zhu, Min Zhang

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Ding

**Upvotes**: 42

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yyding1/scalequest)

### Abstract

The availability of high-quality data is one of the most important factors in
improving the reasoning capability of LLMs. Existing works have demonstrated
the effectiveness of creating more instruction data from seed questions or
knowledge bases. Recent research indicates that continually scaling up data
synthesis from strong models (e.g., GPT-4) can further elicit reasoning
performance. Though promising, the open-sourced community still lacks
high-quality data at scale and scalable data synthesis methods with affordable
costs. To address this, we introduce ScaleQuest, a scalable and novel data
synthesis method that utilizes "small-size" (e.g., 7B) open-source models to
generate questions from scratch without the need for seed data with complex
augmentation constraints. With the efficient ScaleQuest, we automatically
constructed a mathematical reasoning dataset consisting of 1 million
problem-solution pairs, which are more effective than existing open-sourced
datasets. It can universally increase the performance of mainstream open-source
models (i.e., Mistral, Llama3, DeepSeekMath, and Qwen2-Math) by achieving 29.2%
to 46.4% gains on MATH. Notably, simply fine-tuning the Qwen2-Math-7B-Base
model with our dataset can even surpass Qwen2-Math-7B-Instruct, a strong and
well-aligned model on closed-source data, and proprietary models such as
GPT-4-Turbo and Claude-3.5 Sonnet.

---

## 5. [Framer: Interactive Frame Interpolation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18978)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18978](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18978)

**Authors**: Wen Wang, Qiuyu Wang, Kecheng Zheng, Hao Ouyang, Zhekai Chen, Biao Gong, Hao Chen, Yujun Shen, Chunhua Shen

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Wen Wang

**Upvotes**: 38

### Abstract

We propose Framer for interactive frame interpolation, which targets
producing smoothly transitioning frames between two images as per user
creativity. Concretely, besides taking the start and end frames as inputs, our
approach supports customizing the transition process by tailoring the
trajectory of some selected keypoints. Such a design enjoys two clear benefits.
First, incorporating human interaction mitigates the issue arising from
numerous possibilities of transforming one image to another, and in turn
enables finer control of local motions. Second, as the most basic form of
interaction, keypoints help establish the correspondence across frames,
enhancing the model to handle challenging cases (e.g., objects on the start and
end frames are of different shapes and styles). It is noteworthy that our
system also offers an "autopilot" mode, where we introduce a module to estimate
the keypoints and refine the trajectory automatically, to simplify the usage in
practice. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the appealing performance
of Framer on various applications, such as image morphing, time-lapse video
generation, cartoon interpolation, etc. The code, the model, and the interface
will be released to facilitate further research.

---

## 6. [Unbounded: A Generative Infinite Game of Character Life Simulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18975)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18975](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18975)

**Authors**: Jialu Li, Yuanzhen Li, Neal Wadhwa, Yael Pritch, David E. Jacobs, Michael Rubinstein, Mohit Bansal, Nataniel Ruiz

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Nataniel

**Upvotes**: 37

### Abstract

We introduce the concept of a generative infinite game, a video game that
transcends the traditional boundaries of finite, hard-coded systems by using
generative models. Inspired by James P. Carse's distinction between finite and
infinite games, we leverage recent advances in generative AI to create
Unbounded: a game of character life simulation that is fully encapsulated in
generative models. Specifically, Unbounded draws inspiration from sandbox life
simulations and allows you to interact with your autonomous virtual character
in a virtual world by feeding, playing with and guiding it - with open-ended
mechanics generated by an LLM, some of which can be emergent. In order to
develop Unbounded, we propose technical innovations in both the LLM and visual
generation domains. Specifically, we present: (1) a specialized, distilled
large language model (LLM) that dynamically generates game mechanics,
narratives, and character interactions in real-time, and (2) a new dynamic
regional image prompt Adapter (IP-Adapter) for vision models that ensures
consistent yet flexible visual generation of a character across multiple
environments. We evaluate our system through both qualitative and quantitative
analysis, showing significant improvements in character life simulation, user
instruction following, narrative coherence, and visual consistency for both
characters and the environments compared to traditional related approaches.

---

## 7. [Distill Visual Chart Reasoning Ability from LLMs to MLLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18798)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18798](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18798)

**Authors**: Wei He, Zhiheng Xi, Wanxu Zhao, Xiaoran Fan, Yiwen Ding, Zifei Shan, Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, Xuanjing Huang

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Zhiheng Xi

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hewei2001/reachqa)

### Abstract

Solving complex chart Q&A tasks requires advanced visual reasoning abilities
in multimodal large language models (MLLMs). Recent studies highlight that
these abilities consist of two main parts: recognizing key information from
visual inputs and conducting reasoning over it. Thus, a promising approach to
enhance MLLMs is to construct relevant training data focusing on the two
aspects. However, collecting and annotating complex charts and questions is
costly and time-consuming, and ensuring the quality of annotated answers
remains a challenge. In this paper, we propose Code-as-Intermediary Translation
(CIT), a cost-effective, efficient and easily scalable data synthesis method
for distilling visual reasoning abilities from LLMs to MLLMs. The code serves
as an intermediary that translates visual chart representations into textual
representations, enabling LLMs to understand cross-modal information.
Specifically, we employ text-based synthesizing techniques to construct
chart-plotting code and produce ReachQA, a dataset containing 3k
reasoning-intensive charts and 20k Q&A pairs to enhance both recognition and
reasoning abilities. Experiments show that when fine-tuned with our data,
models not only perform well on chart-related benchmarks, but also demonstrate
improved multimodal reasoning abilities on general mathematical benchmarks like
MathVista. The code and dataset are publicly available at
https://github.com/hewei2001/ReachQA.

---

## 8. [Skywork-Reward: Bag of Tricks for Reward Modeling in LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18451)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18451](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18451)

**Authors**: Chris Yuhao Liu, Liang Zeng, Jiacai Liu, Rui Yan, Jujie He, Chaojie Wang, Shuicheng Yan, Yang Liu, Yahui Zhou

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Chris (Yuhao) Liu

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

In this report, we introduce a collection of methods to enhance reward
modeling for LLMs, focusing specifically on data-centric techniques. We propose
effective data selection and filtering strategies for curating high-quality
open-source preference datasets, culminating in the Skywork-Reward data
collection, which contains only 80K preference pairs -- significantly smaller
than existing datasets. Using this curated dataset, we developed the
Skywork-Reward model series -- Skywork-Reward-Gemma-27B and
Skywork-Reward-Llama-3.1-8B -- with the former currently holding the top
position on the RewardBench leaderboard. Notably, our techniques and datasets
have directly enhanced the performance of many top-ranked models on
RewardBench, highlighting the practical impact of our contributions in
real-world preference learning applications.

---

## 9. [Steering Knowledge Selection Behaviours in LLMs via SAE-Based
  Representation Engineering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.15999)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.15999](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.15999)

**Authors**: Yu Zhao, Alessio Devoto, Giwon Hong, Xiaotang Du, Aryo Pradipta Gema, Hongru Wang, Kam-Fai Wong, Pasquale Minervini

**Published**: 2024-10-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Yu Zhao

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yuzhaouoe/SAE-based-representation-engineering)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) can store a significant amount of factual
knowledge in their parameters. However, their parametric knowledge may conflict
with the information provided in the context -- this phenomenon, known as
context-memory knowledge conflicts, can lead to undesirable model
behaviour, such as reliance on outdated or incorrect information. Analysing the
internal activations of LLMs, we find that they can internally register the
signals of knowledge conflict at mid-layers. Such signals allow us to detect
whether a knowledge conflict occurs and use inference-time intervention
strategies to resolve it. In this work, we propose SpARE, a
training-free representation engineering method that uses pre-trained
sparse auto-encoders (SAEs) to control the knowledge selection behaviour of
LLMs. SpARE identifies the functional features that control the
knowledge selection behaviours and applies them to edit the internal
activations of LLMs at inference time. Our experimental results show that
SpARE can effectively control the usage of either knowledge source to
resolve knowledge conflict in open-domain question-answering tasks, surpassing
existing representation engineering methods (+10%) as well as contrastive
decoding methods (+15%).

---

## 10. [Taipan: Efficient and Expressive State Space Language Models with
  Selective Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18572)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18572](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18572)

**Authors**: Chien Van Nguyen, Huy Huu Nguyen, Thang M. Pham, Ruiyi Zhang, Hanieh Deilamsalehy, Puneet Mathur, Ryan A. Rossi, Trung Bui, Viet Dac Lai, Franck Dernoncourt, Thien Huu Nguyen

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Nguyen Van Chien

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Efficient long-context language modeling remains a significant challenge in
Natural Language Processing (NLP). While Transformers dominate language tasks,
they struggle with long sequences due to quadratic computational complexity in
training and linearly scaling memory costs during inference. Recent State Space
Models (SSMs) such as Mamba offer alternatives with constant memory usage, but
they underperform in tasks requiring extensive in-context retrieval. We
introduce Taipan, a novel hybrid architecture that combines Mamba-2 with
Selective Attention Layers (SALs). These SALs identify tokens requiring
long-range interactions, remove less important features, and then augment their
representations using the attention module. This approach balances Mamba's
efficiency with Transformer-like performance in memory-intensive tasks. By
constraining the attention budget, Taipan extends accurate predictions to
context lengths of up to 1 million tokens while preserving computational
efficiency. Our experiments demonstrate Taipan's superior performance across
various scales and tasks, offering a promising solution for efficient
long-context language modeling.

---

## 11. [Why Does the Effective Context Length of LLMs Fall Short?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18745)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18745](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18745)

**Authors**: Chenxin An, Jun Zhang, Ming Zhong, Lei Li, Shansan Gong, Yao Luo, Jingjing Xu, Lingpeng Kong

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Chenxin An

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Advancements in distributed training and efficient attention mechanisms have
significantly expanded the context window sizes of large language models
(LLMs). However, recent work reveals that the effective context lengths of
open-source LLMs often fall short, typically not exceeding half of their
training lengths. In this work, we attribute this limitation to the left-skewed
frequency distribution of relative positions formed in LLMs pretraining and
post-training stages, which impedes their ability to effectively gather distant
information. To address this challenge, we introduce ShifTed Rotray position
embeddING (STRING). STRING shifts well-trained positions to overwrite the
original ineffective positions during inference, enhancing performance within
their existing training lengths. Experimental results show that without
additional training, STRING dramatically improves the performance of the latest
large-scale models, such as Llama3.1 70B and Qwen2 72B, by over 10 points on
popular long-context benchmarks RULER and InfiniteBench, establishing new
state-of-the-art results for open-source LLMs. Compared to commercial models,
Llama 3.1 70B with \method even achieves better performance than GPT-4-128K and
clearly surpasses Claude 2 and Kimi-chat.

---

## 12. [SMITE: Segment Me In TimE](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18538)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18538](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18538)

**Authors**: Amirhossein Alimohammadi, Sauradip Nag, Saeid Asgari Taghanaki, Andrea Tagliasacchi, Ghassan Hamarneh, Ali Mahdavi Amiri

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Amirhossein Alimohammadi

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/alimohammadiamirhossein/smite)

### Abstract

Segmenting an object in a video presents significant challenges. Each pixel
must be accurately labelled, and these labels must remain consistent across
frames. The difficulty increases when the segmentation is with arbitrary
granularity, meaning the number of segments can vary arbitrarily, and masks are
defined based on only one or a few sample images. In this paper, we address
this issue by employing a pre-trained text to image diffusion model
supplemented with an additional tracking mechanism. We demonstrate that our
approach can effectively manage various segmentation scenarios and outperforms
state-of-the-art alternatives.

---

## 13. [MotionCLR: Motion Generation and Training-free Editing via Understanding
  Attention Mechanisms](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18977)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18977](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18977)

**Authors**: Ling-Hao Chen, Wenxun Dai, Xuan Ju, Shunlin Lu, Lei Zhang

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Ling-Hao Chen

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

This research delves into the problem of interactive editing of human motion
generation. Previous motion diffusion models lack explicit modeling of the
word-level text-motion correspondence and good explainability, hence
restricting their fine-grained editing ability. To address this issue, we
propose an attention-based motion diffusion model, namely MotionCLR, with CLeaR
modeling of attention mechanisms. Technically, MotionCLR models the in-modality
and cross-modality interactions with self-attention and cross-attention,
respectively. More specifically, the self-attention mechanism aims to measure
the sequential similarity between frames and impacts the order of motion
features. By contrast, the cross-attention mechanism works to find the
fine-grained word-sequence correspondence and activate the corresponding
timesteps in the motion sequence. Based on these key properties, we develop a
versatile set of simple yet effective motion editing methods via manipulating
attention maps, such as motion (de-)emphasizing, in-place motion replacement,
and example-based motion generation, etc. For further verification of the
explainability of the attention mechanism, we additionally explore the
potential of action-counting and grounded motion generation ability via
attention maps. Our experimental results show that our method enjoys good
generation and editing ability with good explainability.

---

## 14. [CAMEL-Bench: A Comprehensive Arabic LMM Benchmark](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18976)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18976](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18976)

**Organization**: Mohamed Bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence

**Authors**: Sara Ghaboura, Ahmed Heakl, Omkar Thawakar, Ali Alharthi, Ines Riahi, Abduljalil Saif, Jorma Laaksonen, Fahad S. Khan, Salman Khan, Rao M. Anwer

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Ahmed Heakl

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/CAMEL-Bench)

### Abstract

Recent years have witnessed a significant interest in developing large
multimodal models (LMMs) capable of performing various visual reasoning and
understanding tasks. This has led to the introduction of multiple LMM
benchmarks to evaluate LMMs on different tasks. However, most existing LMM
evaluation benchmarks are predominantly English-centric. In this work, we
develop a comprehensive LMM evaluation benchmark for the Arabic language to
represent a large population of over 400 million speakers. The proposed
benchmark, named CAMEL-Bench, comprises eight diverse domains and 38
sub-domains including, multi-image understanding, complex visual perception,
handwritten document understanding, video understanding, medical imaging, plant
diseases, and remote sensing-based land use understanding to evaluate broad
scenario generalizability. Our CAMEL-Bench comprises around 29,036 questions
that are filtered from a larger pool of samples, where the quality is manually
verified by native speakers to ensure reliable model assessment. We conduct
evaluations of both closed-source, including GPT-4 series, and open-source
LMMs. Our analysis reveals the need for substantial improvement, especially
among the best open-source models, with even the closed-source GPT-4o achieving
an overall score of 62%. Our benchmark and evaluation scripts are open-sourced.

---

## 15. [WAFFLE: Multi-Modal Model for Automated Front-End Development](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18362)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18362](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18362)

**Authors**: Shanchao Liang, Nan Jiang, Shangshu Qian, Lin Tan

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Nan Jiang

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lt-asset/Waffle)

### Abstract

Web development involves turning UI designs into functional webpages, which
can be difficult for both beginners and experienced developers due to the
complexity of HTML's hierarchical structures and styles. While Large Language
Models (LLMs) have shown promise in generating source code, two major
challenges persist in UI-to-HTML code generation: (1) effectively representing
HTML's hierarchical structure for LLMs, and (2) bridging the gap between the
visual nature of UI designs and the text-based format of HTML code. To tackle
these challenges, we introduce Waffle, a new fine-tuning strategy that uses a
structure-aware attention mechanism to improve LLMs' understanding of HTML's
structure and a contrastive fine-tuning approach to align LLMs' understanding
of UI images and HTML code. Models fine-tuned with Waffle show up to 9.00 pp
(percentage point) higher HTML match, 0.0982 higher CW-SSIM, 32.99 higher CLIP,
and 27.12 pp higher LLEM on our new benchmark WebSight-Test and an existing
benchmark Design2Code, outperforming current fine-tuning methods.

---

## 16. [DeCoRe: Decoding by Contrasting Retrieval Heads to Mitigate
  Hallucinations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18860)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18860](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18860)

**Authors**: Aryo Pradipta Gema, Chen Jin, Ahmed Abdulaal, Tom Diethe, Philip Teare, Beatrice Alex, Pasquale Minervini, Amrutha Saseendran

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Aryo Pradipta Gema

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aryopg/decore) | [Project Page](https://aryopg.github.io/decore/)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) often hallucinate, producing unfaithful or
factually incorrect outputs by misrepresenting the provided context or
incorrectly recalling internal knowledge. Recent studies have identified
specific attention heads within the Transformer architecture, known as
retrieval heads, responsible for extracting relevant contextual information. We
hypothesise that masking these retrieval heads can induce hallucinations and
that contrasting the outputs of the base LLM and the masked LLM can reduce
hallucinations. To this end, we propose Decoding by Contrasting Retrieval Heads
(DeCoRe), a novel training-free decoding strategy that amplifies information
found in the context and model parameters. DeCoRe mitigates potentially
hallucinated responses by dynamically contrasting the outputs of the base LLM
and the masked LLM, using conditional entropy as a guide. Our extensive
experiments confirm that DeCoRe significantly improves performance on tasks
requiring high contextual faithfulness, such as summarisation (XSum by 18.6%),
instruction following (MemoTrap by 10.9%), and open-book question answering
(NQ-Open by 2.4% and NQ-Swap by 5.5%).

---

## 17. [CCI3.0-HQ: a large-scale Chinese dataset of high quality designed for
  pre-training large language models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18505)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18505](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18505)

**Authors**: Liangdong Wang, Bo-Wen Zhang, Chengwei Wu, Hanyu Zhao, Xiaofeng Shi, Shuhao Gu, Jijie Li, Quanyue Ma, TengFei Pan, Guang Liu

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by ldwang

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

We present CCI3.0-HQ (https://huggingface.co/datasets/BAAI/CCI3-HQ), a
high-quality 500GB subset of the Chinese Corpora Internet 3.0
(CCI3.0)(https://huggingface.co/datasets/BAAI/CCI3-Data), developed using a
novel two-stage hybrid filtering pipeline that significantly enhances data
quality. To evaluate its effectiveness, we trained a 0.5B parameter model from
scratch on 100B tokens across various datasets, achieving superior performance
on 10 benchmarks in a zero-shot setting compared to CCI3.0, SkyPile, and
WanjuanV1. The high-quality filtering process effectively distills the
capabilities of the Qwen2-72B-instruct model into a compact 0.5B model,
attaining optimal F1 scores for Chinese web data classification. We believe
this open-access dataset will facilitate broader access to high-quality
language models.

---

## 18. [Stable Consistency Tuning: Understanding and Improving Consistency
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18958)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18958](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18958)

**Authors**: Fu-Yun Wang, Zhengyang Geng, Hongsheng Li

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Fu-Yun Wang

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Diffusion models achieve superior generation quality but suffer from slow
generation speed due to the iterative nature of denoising. In contrast,
consistency models, a new generative family, achieve competitive performance
with significantly faster sampling. These models are trained either through
consistency distillation, which leverages pretrained diffusion models, or
consistency training/tuning directly from raw data. In this work, we propose a
novel framework for understanding consistency models by modeling the denoising
process of the diffusion model as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) and framing
consistency model training as the value estimation through Temporal
Difference~(TD) Learning. More importantly, this framework allows us to analyze
the limitations of current consistency training/tuning strategies. Built upon
Easy Consistency Tuning (ECT), we propose Stable Consistency Tuning (SCT),
which incorporates variance-reduced learning using the score identity. SCT
leads to significant performance improvements on benchmarks such as CIFAR-10
and ImageNet-64. On ImageNet-64, SCT achieves 1-step FID 2.42 and 2-step FID
1.55, a new SoTA for consistency models.

---

## 19. [Robust Watermarking Using Generative Priors Against Image Editing: From
  Benchmarking to Advances](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18775)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18775](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18775)

**Authors**: Shilin Lu, Zihan Zhou, Jiayou Lu, Yuanzhi Zhu, Adams Wai-Kin Kong

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Shilin Lu

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/shilin-lu/vine)

### Abstract

Current image watermarking methods are vulnerable to advanced image editing
techniques enabled by large-scale text-to-image models. These models can
distort embedded watermarks during editing, posing significant challenges to
copyright protection. In this work, we introduce W-Bench, the first
comprehensive benchmark designed to evaluate the robustness of watermarking
methods against a wide range of image editing techniques, including image
regeneration, global editing, local editing, and image-to-video generation.
Through extensive evaluations of eleven representative watermarking methods
against prevalent editing techniques, we demonstrate that most methods fail to
detect watermarks after such edits. To address this limitation, we propose
VINE, a watermarking method that significantly enhances robustness against
various image editing techniques while maintaining high image quality. Our
approach involves two key innovations: (1) we analyze the frequency
characteristics of image editing and identify that blurring distortions exhibit
similar frequency properties, which allows us to use them as surrogate attacks
during training to bolster watermark robustness; (2) we leverage a large-scale
pretrained diffusion model SDXL-Turbo, adapting it for the watermarking task to
achieve more imperceptible and robust watermark embedding. Experimental results
show that our method achieves outstanding watermarking performance under
various image editing techniques, outperforming existing methods in both image
quality and robustness. Code is available at https://github.com/Shilin-LU/VINE.

---

## 20. [Value Residual Learning For Alleviating Attention Concentration In
  Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17897)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17897](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17897)

**Authors**: Zhanchao Zhou, Tianyi Wu, Zhiyun Jiang, Zhenzhong Lan

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Zhanchao Zhou

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Zcchill/Value-Residual-Learning)

### Abstract

Transformers can capture long-range dependencies using self-attention,
allowing tokens to attend to all others directly. However, stacking multiple
attention layers leads to attention concentration. One natural way to address
this issue is to use cross-layer attention, allowing information from earlier
layers to be directly accessible to later layers. However, this approach is
computationally expensive. To address this problem, we propose Transformer with
residual value (ResFormer) which approximates cross-layer attention through
adding a residual connection from the values of the the first layer to all
subsequent layers. Based on this method, one variant is the Transformer with
single layer value (SVFormer), where all layers share the same value embedding
from first layer, reducing the KV cache by nearly 50%. Comprehensive empirical
evidence demonstrates that ResFormer mitigates attention concentration problem
in deeper layers and enhances representation across most layers, outperforming
the vanilla Transformer, DenseFormer, and NeuTRENO in training error as well as
downstream tasks. SVFormer trains significantly faster than the vanilla
Transformer and performs better than other methods like GQA and CLA, with
performance influenced by sequence length and cumulative learning rate.

---

## 21. [ADEM-VL: Adaptive and Embedded Fusion for Efficient Vision-Language
  Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.17779)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.17779](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17779)

**Authors**: Zhiwei Hao, Jianyuan Guo, Li Shen, Yong Luo, Han Hu, Yonggang Wen

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Zhiwei Hao

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hao840/adem-vl)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in multimodal fusion have witnessed the remarkable
success of vision-language (VL) models, which excel in various multimodal
applications such as image captioning and visual question answering. However,
building VL models requires substantial hardware resources, where efficiency is
restricted by two key factors: the extended input sequence of the language
model with vision features demands more computational operations, and a large
number of additional learnable parameters increase memory complexity. These
challenges significantly restrict the broader applicability of such models. To
bridge this gap, we propose ADEM-VL, an efficient vision-language method that
tunes VL models based on pretrained large language models (LLMs) by adopting a
parameter-free cross-attention mechanism for similarity measurements in
multimodal fusion. This approach only requires embedding vision features into
the language space, significantly reducing the number of trainable parameters
and accelerating both training and inference speeds. To enhance representation
learning in fusion module, we introduce an efficient multiscale feature
generation scheme that requires only a single forward pass through the vision
encoder. Moreover, we propose an adaptive fusion scheme that dynamically
discards less relevant visual information for each text token based on its
attention score. This ensures that the fusion process prioritizes the most
pertinent visual features. With experiments on various tasks including visual
question answering, image captioning, and instruction-following, we demonstrate
that our framework outperforms existing approaches. Specifically, our method
surpasses existing methods by an average accuracy of 0.77% on ScienceQA
dataset, with reduced training and inference latency, demonstrating the
superiority of our framework. The code is available at
https://github.com/Hao840/ADEM-VL.

---

## 22. [Language Models are Symbolic Learners in Arithmetic](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.15580)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.15580](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.15580)

**Authors**: Chunyuan Deng, Zhiqi Li, Roy Xie, Ruidi Chang, Hanjie Chen

**Published**: 2024-10-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Chunyuan Deng

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) are thought to struggle with arithmetic learning
due to the inherent differences between language modeling and numerical
computation, but concrete evidence has been lacking. This work responds to this
claim through a two-side experiment. We first investigate whether LLMs leverage
partial products during arithmetic learning. We find that although LLMs can
identify some partial products after learning, they fail to leverage them for
arithmetic tasks, conversely. We then explore how LLMs approach arithmetic
symbolically by breaking tasks into subgroups, hypothesizing that difficulties
arise from subgroup complexity and selection. Our results show that when
subgroup complexity is fixed, LLMs treat a collection of different arithmetic
operations similarly. By analyzing position-level accuracy across different
training sizes, we further observe that it follows a U-shaped pattern: LLMs
quickly learn the easiest patterns at the first and last positions, while
progressively learning the more difficult patterns in the middle positions.
This suggests that LLMs select subgroup following an easy-to-hard paradigm
during learning. Our work confirms that LLMs are pure symbolic learners in
arithmetic tasks and underscores the importance of understanding them deeply
through subgroup-level quantification.

---

## 23. [Should We Really Edit Language Models? On the Evaluation of Edited
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18785)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18785](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18785)

**Authors**: Qi Li, Xiang Liu, Zhenheng Tang, Peijie Dong, Zeyu Li, Xinglin Pan, Xiaowen Chu

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Xiang Liu

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lqinfdim/editingevaluation)

### Abstract

Model editing has become an increasingly popular alternative for efficiently
updating knowledge within language models. Current methods mainly focus on
reliability, generalization, and locality, with many methods excelling across
these criteria. Some recent works disclose the pitfalls of these editing
methods such as knowledge distortion or conflict. However, the general
abilities of post-edited language models remain unexplored. In this paper, we
perform a comprehensive evaluation on various editing methods and different
language models, and have following findings. (1) Existing editing methods lead
to inevitable performance deterioration on general benchmarks, indicating that
existing editing methods maintain the general abilities of the model within
only a few dozen edits. When the number of edits is slightly large, the
intrinsic knowledge structure of the model is disrupted or even completely
damaged. (2) Instruction-tuned models are more robust to editing, showing less
performance drop on general knowledge after editing. (3) Language model with
large scale is more resistant to editing compared to small model. (4) The
safety of the edited model, is significantly weakened, even for those
safety-aligned models. Our findings indicate that current editing methods are
only suitable for small-scale knowledge updates within language models, which
motivates further research on more practical and reliable editing methods. The
details of code and reproduction can be found in
https://github.com/lqinfdim/EditingEvaluation.

---

## 24. [The Nature of Mathematical Modeling and Probabilistic Optimization
  Engineering in Generative AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18441)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18441](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18441)

**Authors**: Fulu Li

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Fulu Li

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

In this paper, we give an in-depth analysis on the mathematical problem
formulations and the probabilistic optimization explorations for some of the
key components in Transformer model [33] in the field of generative AI. We
explore and discuss some potential further enhancement for current state of the
art methods for some key underlying technologies of generative AI models from
algorithmic and probabilistic optimization perspective. In particular, we
present an optimal solution for sub-word encoding (SWE) based on similar
initial settings as that of byte-pair encoding (BPE) algorithm in [9] with
similar objectives as that of WordPiece approach in [28, 31] to maximize the
likelihood of the training data. We also present cross entropy optimization
method to optimize hyperparameters for word2vec model [17]. In addition, we
propose a factored combination of rotary positional encoding (RoPE) [32] and
attention with linear biases (ALiBi) [23] with a harmonic series. We also
present a probabilistic FlashAttention [6, 7] (PrFlashAttention) method with a
probability distribution over block distances in the matrix to decide which
block is likely to participate in a given round of attention computation while
maintaining the lower triangle shape of the tensor for autoregressive language
models by re-shaping the tensors. Finally, we present staircase adaptive
quantization (SAQ) of key-value (KV) cache for multi-query attention (MQA)
based on the framework presented in [16] to have gradual quantization
degradation while achieving reasonable model quality and cost savings.

---

## 25. [Asynchronous RLHF: Faster and More Efficient Off-Policy RL for Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18252)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18252](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18252)

**Authors**: Michael Noukhovitch, Shengyi Huang, Sophie Xhonneux, Arian Hosseini, Rishabh Agarwal, Aaron Courville

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Michael N

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mnoukhov/async_rlhf)

### Abstract

The dominant paradigm for RLHF is online and on-policy RL: synchronously
generating from the large language model (LLM) policy, labelling with a reward
model, and learning using feedback on the LLM's own outputs. While performant,
this paradigm is computationally inefficient. Inspired by classical deep RL
literature, we propose separating generation and learning in RLHF. This enables
asynchronous generation of new samples while simultaneously training on old
samples, leading to faster training and more compute-optimal scaling. However,
asynchronous training relies on an underexplored regime, online but off-policy
RLHF: learning on samples from previous iterations of our model. To understand
the challenges in this regime, we investigate a fundamental question: how much
off-policyness can we tolerate for asynchronous training to speed up learning
but maintain performance? Among several RLHF algorithms we tested, we find that
online DPO is most robust to off-policy data, and robustness increases with the
scale of the policy model. We study further compute optimizations for
asynchronous RLHF but find that they come at a performance cost, giving rise to
a trade-off. Finally, we verify the scalability of asynchronous RLHF by
training LLaMA 3.1 8B on an instruction-following task 40% faster than a
synchronous run while matching final performance.

---

## 26. [Data Scaling Laws in Imitation Learning for Robotic Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18647)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18647](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18647)

**Authors**: Fanqi Lin, Yingdong Hu, Pingyue Sheng, Chuan Wen, Jiacheng You, Yang Gao

**Published**: 2024-10-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Yingdong Hu

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Fanqi-Lin/Data-Scaling-Laws)

### Abstract

Data scaling has revolutionized fields like natural language processing and
computer vision, providing models with remarkable generalization capabilities.
In this paper, we investigate whether similar data scaling laws exist in
robotics, particularly in robotic manipulation, and whether appropriate data
scaling can yield single-task robot policies that can be deployed zero-shot for
any object within the same category in any environment. To this end, we conduct
a comprehensive empirical study on data scaling in imitation learning. By
collecting data across numerous environments and objects, we study how a
policy's generalization performance changes with the number of training
environments, objects, and demonstrations. Throughout our research, we collect
over 40,000 demonstrations and execute more than 15,000 real-world robot
rollouts under a rigorous evaluation protocol. Our findings reveal several
intriguing results: the generalization performance of the policy follows a
roughly power-law relationship with the number of environments and objects. The
diversity of environments and objects is far more important than the absolute
number of demonstrations; once the number of demonstrations per environment or
object reaches a certain threshold, additional demonstrations have minimal
effect. Based on these insights, we propose an efficient data collection
strategy. With four data collectors working for one afternoon, we collect
sufficient data to enable the policies for two tasks to achieve approximately
90% success rates in novel environments with unseen objects.

---

## 27. [ZIP-FIT: Embedding-Free Data Selection via Compression-Based Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18194)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18194](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18194)

**Authors**: Elyas Obbad, Iddah Mlauzi, Brando Miranda, Rylan Schaeffer, Kamal Obbad, Suhana Bedi, Sanmi Koyejo

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Brando Miranda

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Data selection is crucial for optimizing language model (LM) performance on
specific tasks, yet most existing methods fail to effectively consider the
target task distribution.
  Current approaches either ignore task-specific requirements entirely or rely
on approximations that fail to capture the nuanced patterns needed for tasks
like Autoformalization or code generation.
  Methods that do consider the target distribution often rely on simplistic,
sometimes noisy, representations, like hashed n-gram features, which can lead
to collisions and introduce noise.
  We introduce ZIP-FIT, a data selection framework that uses gzip compression
to directly measure alignment between potential training data and the target
task distribution.
  In extensive evaluations on Autoformalization and Python code generation,
ZIP-FIT significantly outperforms leading baselines like DSIR and D4.
  Models trained on ZIP-FIT-selected data achieve their lowest cross-entropy
loss up to 85.1\% faster than baselines, demonstrating that better task
alignment leads to more efficient learning.
  In addition, ZIP-FIT performs selection up to 65.8\% faster than DSIR and two
orders of magnitude faster than D4.
  Notably, ZIP-FIT shows that smaller, well-aligned datasets often outperform
larger but less targeted ones, demonstrating that a small amount of higher
quality data is superior to a large amount of lower quality data.
  Our results imply that task-aware data selection is crucial for efficient
domain adaptation, and that compression offers a principled way to measure task
alignment.
  By showing that targeted data selection can dramatically improve
task-specific performance, our work provides new insights into the relationship
between data quality, task alignment, and model learning efficiency.

---

## 28. [Pantograph: A Machine-to-Machine Interaction Interface for Advanced
  Theorem Proving, High Level Reasoning, and Data Extraction in Lean 4](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.16429)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.16429](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16429)

**Authors**: Leni Aniva, Chuyue Sun, Brando Miranda, Clark Barrett, Sanmi Koyejo

**Published**: 2024-10-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by Brando Miranda

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lenianiva/pypantograph)

### Abstract

Machine-assisted theorem proving refers to the process of conducting
structured reasoning to automatically generate proofs for mathematical
theorems. Recently, there has been a surge of interest in using machine
learning models in conjunction with proof assistants to perform this task. In
this paper, we introduce Pantograph, a tool that provides a versatile interface
to the Lean 4 proof assistant and enables efficient proof search via powerful
search algorithms such as Monte Carlo Tree Search. In addition, Pantograph
enables high-level reasoning by enabling a more robust handling of Lean 4's
inference steps. We provide an overview of Pantograph's architecture and
features. We also report on an illustrative use case: using machine learning
models and proof sketches to prove Lean 4 theorems. Pantograph's innovative
features pave the way for more advanced machine learning models to perform
complex proof searches and high-level reasoning, equipping future researchers
to design more versatile and powerful theorem provers.

---

## 29. [Multi-Draft Speculative Sampling: Canonical Architectures and
  Theoretical Limits](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.18234)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.18234](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18234)

**Authors**: Ashish Khisti, M. Reza Ebrahimi, Hassan Dbouk, Arash Behboodi, Roland Memisevic, Christos Louizos

**Published**: 2024-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-10-25 by M.Reza Ebrahimi

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

We consider multi-draft speculative sampling, where the proposal sequences
are sampled independently from different draft models. At each step, a
token-level draft selection scheme takes a list of valid tokens as input and
produces an output token whose distribution matches that of the target model.
Previous works have demonstrated that the optimal scheme (which maximizes the
probability of accepting one of the input tokens) can be cast as a solution to
a linear program. In this work we show that the optimal scheme can be
decomposed into a two-step solution: in the first step an importance sampling
(IS) type scheme is used to select one intermediate token; in the second step
(single-draft) speculative sampling is applied to generate the output token.
For the case of two identical draft models we further 1) establish a necessary
and sufficient condition on the distributions of the target and draft models
for the acceptance probability to equal one and 2) provide an explicit
expression for the optimal acceptance probability. Our theoretical analysis
also motives a new class of token-level selection scheme based on weighted
importance sampling. Our experimental results demonstrate consistent
improvements in the achievable block efficiency and token rates over baseline
schemes in a number of scenarios.

---
