# Daily Papers - 2023-06-21

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-06-21)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [Textbooks Are All You Need](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.11644)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.11644](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.11644)

**Authors**: Suriya Gunasekar, Yi Zhang, Jyoti Aneja, Caio César Teodoro Mendes, Allie Del Giorno, Sivakanth Gopi, Mojan Javaheripi, Piero Kauffmann, Gustavo de Rosa, Olli Saarikivi, Adil Salim, Shital Shah, Harkirat Singh Behl, Xin Wang, Sébastien Bubeck, Ronen Eldan, Adam Tauman Kalai, Yin Tat Lee, Yuanzhi Li

**Published**: 2023-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 154

### Abstract

We introduce phi-1, a new large language model for code, with significantly
smaller size than competing models: phi-1 is a Transformer-based model with
1.3B parameters, trained for 4 days on 8 A100s, using a selection of ``textbook
quality" data from the web (6B tokens) and synthetically generated textbooks
and exercises with GPT-3.5 (1B tokens). Despite this small scale, phi-1 attains
pass@1 accuracy 50.6% on HumanEval and 55.5% on MBPP. It also displays
surprising emergent properties compared to phi-1-base, our model before our
finetuning stage on a dataset of coding exercises, and phi-1-small, a smaller
model with 350M parameters trained with the same pipeline as phi-1 that still
achieves 45% on HumanEval.

---

## 2. [MotionGPT: Finetuned LLMs are General-Purpose Motion Generators](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.10900)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.10900](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10900)

**Authors**: Yaqi Zhang, Di Huang, Bin Liu, Shixiang Tang, Yan Lu, Lu Chen, Lei Bai, Qi Chu, Nenghai Yu, Wanli Ouyang

**Published**: 2023-06-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Generating realistic human motion from given action descriptions has
experienced significant advancements because of the emerging requirement of
digital humans. While recent works have achieved impressive results in
generating motion directly from textual action descriptions, they often support
only a single modality of the control signal, which limits their application in
the real digital human industry. This paper presents a Motion General-Purpose
generaTor (MotionGPT) that can use multimodal control signals, e.g., text and
single-frame poses, for generating consecutive human motions by treating
multimodal signals as special input tokens in large language models (LLMs).
Specifically, we first quantize multimodal control signals into discrete codes
and then formulate them in a unified prompt instruction to ask the LLMs to
generate the motion answer. Our MotionGPT demonstrates a unified human motion
generation model with multimodal control signals by tuning a mere 0.4% of LLM
parameters. To the best of our knowledge, MotionGPT is the first method to
generate human motion by multimodal control signals, which we hope can shed
light on this new direction. Codes shall be released upon acceptance.

---

## 3. [HomeRobot: Open-Vocabulary Mobile Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.11565)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.11565](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.11565)

**Authors**: Sriram Yenamandra, Arun Ramachandran, Karmesh Yadav, Austin Wang, Mukul Khanna, Theophile Gervet, Tsung-Yen Yang, Vidhi Jain, Alexander William Clegg, John Turner, Zsolt Kira, Manolis Savva, Angel Chang, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Dhruv Batra, Roozbeh Mottaghi, Yonatan Bisk, Chris Paxton

**Published**: 2023-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

HomeRobot (noun): An affordable compliant robot that navigates homes and
manipulates a wide range of objects in order to complete everyday tasks.
Open-Vocabulary Mobile Manipulation (OVMM) is the problem of picking any object
in any unseen environment, and placing it in a commanded location. This is a
foundational challenge for robots to be useful assistants in human
environments, because it involves tackling sub-problems from across robotics:
perception, language understanding, navigation, and manipulation are all
essential to OVMM. In addition, integration of the solutions to these
sub-problems poses its own substantial challenges. To drive research in this
area, we introduce the HomeRobot OVMM benchmark, where an agent navigates
household environments to grasp novel objects and place them on target
receptacles. HomeRobot has two components: a simulation component, which uses a
large and diverse curated object set in new, high-quality multi-room home
environments; and a real-world component, providing a software stack for the
low-cost Hello Robot Stretch to encourage replication of real-world experiments
across labs. We implement both reinforcement learning and heuristic
(model-based) baselines and show evidence of sim-to-real transfer. Our
baselines achieve a 20% success rate in the real world; our experiments
identify ways future research work improve performance. See videos on our
website: https://ovmm.github.io/.

---

## 4. [RepoFusion: Training Code Models to Understand Your Repository](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.10998)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.10998](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10998)

**Authors**: Disha Shrivastava, Denis Kocetkov, Harm de Vries, Dzmitry Bahdanau, Torsten Scholak

**Published**: 2023-06-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Despite the huge success of Large Language Models (LLMs) in coding assistants
like GitHub Copilot, these models struggle to understand the context present in
the repository (e.g., imports, parent classes, files with similar names, etc.),
thereby producing inaccurate code completions. This effect is more pronounced
when using these assistants for repositories that the model has not seen during
training, such as proprietary software or work-in-progress code projects.
Recent work has shown the promise of using context from the repository during
inference. In this work, we extend this idea and propose RepoFusion, a
framework to train models to incorporate relevant repository context.
Experiments on single-line code completion show that our models trained with
repository context significantly outperform much larger code models as
CodeGen-16B-multi (sim73times larger) and closely match the performance of
the sim 70times larger StarCoderBase model that was trained with the
Fill-in-the-Middle objective. We find these results to be a novel and
compelling demonstration of the gains that training with repository context can
bring. We carry out extensive ablation studies to investigate the impact of
design choices such as context type, number of contexts, context length, and
initialization within our framework. Lastly, we release Stack-Repo, a dataset
of 200 Java repositories with permissive licenses and near-deduplicated files
that are augmented with three types of repository contexts. Additionally, we
are making available the code and trained checkpoints for our work. Our
released resources can be found at https://huggingface.co/RepoFusion.

---

## 5. [Point-Cloud Completion with Pretrained Text-to-image Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.10533)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.10533](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10533)

**Authors**: Yoni Kasten, Ohad Rahamim, Gal Chechik

**Published**: 2023-06-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NVlabs/sds-complete)

### Abstract

Point-cloud data collected in real-world applications are often incomplete.
Data is typically missing due to objects being observed from partial
viewpoints, which only capture a specific perspective or angle. Additionally,
data can be incomplete due to occlusion and low-resolution sampling. Existing
completion approaches rely on datasets of predefined objects to guide the
completion of noisy and incomplete, point clouds. However, these approaches
perform poorly when tested on Out-Of-Distribution (OOD) objects, that are
poorly represented in the training dataset. Here we leverage recent advances in
text-guided image generation, which lead to major breakthroughs in text-guided
shape generation. We describe an approach called SDS-Complete that uses a
pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model and leverages the text semantics of a
given incomplete point cloud of an object, to obtain a complete surface
representation. SDS-Complete can complete a variety of objects using test-time
optimization without expensive collection of 3D information. We evaluate SDS
Complete on incomplete scanned objects, captured by real-world depth sensors
and LiDAR scanners. We find that it effectively reconstructs objects that are
absent from common datasets, reducing Chamfer loss by 50% on average compared
with current methods. Project page: https://sds-complete.github.io/

---

## 6. [RoboCat: A Self-Improving Foundation Agent for Robotic Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.11706)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.11706](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.11706)

**Authors**: Konstantinos Bousmalis, Giulia Vezzani, Dushyant Rao, Coline Devin, Alex X. Lee, Maria Bauza, Todor Davchev, Yuxiang Zhou, Agrim Gupta, Akhil Raju, Antoine Laurens, Claudio Fantacci, Valentin Dalibard, Martina Zambelli, Murilo Martins, Rugile Pevceviciute, Michiel Blokzijl, Misha Denil, Nathan Batchelor, Thomas Lampe, Emilio Parisotto, Konrad Żołna, Scott Reed, Sergio Gómez Colmenarejo, Jon Scholz, Abbas Abdolmaleki, Oliver Groth, Jean-Baptiste Regli, Oleg Sushkov, Tom Rothörl, José Enrique Chen, Yusuf Aytar, Dave Barker, Joy Ortiz, Martin Riedmiller, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Raia Hadsell, Francesco Nori, Nicolas Heess

**Published**: 2023-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

The ability to leverage heterogeneous robotic experience from different
robots and tasks to quickly master novel skills and embodiments has the
potential to transform robot learning. Inspired by recent advances in
foundation models for vision and language, we propose a foundation agent for
robotic manipulation. This agent, named RoboCat, is a visual goal-conditioned
decision transformer capable of consuming multi-embodiment action-labelled
visual experience. This data spans a large repertoire of motor control skills
from simulated and real robotic arms with varying sets of observations and
actions. With RoboCat, we demonstrate the ability to generalise to new tasks
and robots, both zero-shot as well as through adaptation using only 100--1000
examples for the target task. We also show how a trained model itself can be
used to generate data for subsequent training iterations, thus providing a
basic building block for an autonomous improvement loop. We investigate the
agent's capabilities, with large-scale evaluations both in simulation and on
three different real robot embodiments. We find that as we grow and diversify
its training data, RoboCat not only shows signs of cross-task transfer, but
also becomes more efficient at adapting to new tasks.

---

## 7. [GLIMMER: generalized late-interaction memory reranker](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.10231)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.10231](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10231)

**Authors**: Michiel de Jong, Yury Zemlyanskiy, Nicholas FitzGerald, Sumit Sanghai, William W. Cohen, Joshua Ainslie

**Published**: 2023-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Memory-augmentation is a powerful approach for efficiently incorporating
external information into language models, but leads to reduced performance
relative to retrieving text. Recent work introduced LUMEN, a memory-retrieval
hybrid that partially pre-computes memory and updates memory representations on
the fly with a smaller live encoder.
  We propose GLIMMER, which improves on this approach through 1) exploiting
free access to the powerful memory representations by applying a shallow
reranker on top of memory to drastically improve retrieval quality at low cost,
and 2) incorporating multi-task training to learn a general and higher quality
memory and live encoder. GLIMMER achieves strong gains in performance at faster
speeds compared to LUMEN and FiD on the KILT benchmark of knowledge-intensive
tasks.

---

## 8. [Diffusion with Forward Models: Solving Stochastic Inverse Problems
  Without Direct Supervision](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.11719)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.11719](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.11719)

**Authors**: Ayush Tewari, Tianwei Yin, George Cazenavette, Semon Rezchikov, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, Frédo Durand, William T. Freeman, Vincent Sitzmann

**Published**: 2023-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ayushtewari/DFM)

### Abstract

Denoising diffusion models are a powerful type of generative models used to
capture complex distributions of real-world signals. However, their
applicability is limited to scenarios where training samples are readily
available, which is not always the case in real-world applications. For
example, in inverse graphics, the goal is to generate samples from a
distribution of 3D scenes that align with a given image, but ground-truth 3D
scenes are unavailable and only 2D images are accessible. To address this
limitation, we propose a novel class of denoising diffusion probabilistic
models that learn to sample from distributions of signals that are never
directly observed. Instead, these signals are measured indirectly through a
known differentiable forward model, which produces partial observations of the
unknown signal. Our approach involves integrating the forward model directly
into the denoising process. This integration effectively connects the
generative modeling of observations with the generative modeling of the
underlying signals, allowing for end-to-end training of a conditional
generative model over signals. During inference, our approach enables sampling
from the distribution of underlying signals that are consistent with a given
partial observation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on three
challenging computer vision tasks. For instance, in the context of inverse
graphics, our model enables direct sampling from the distribution of 3D scenes
that align with a single 2D input image.

---

## 9. [BayLing: Bridging Cross-lingual Alignment and Instruction Following
  through Interactive Translation for Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.10968)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.10968](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10968)

**Authors**: Shaolei Zhang, Qingkai Fang, Zhuocheng Zhang, Zhengrui Ma, Yan Zhou, Langlin Huang, Mengyu Bu, Shangtong Gui, Yunji Chen, Xilin Chen, Yang Feng

**Published**: 2023-06-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ictnlp/bayling)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable prowess in language
understanding and generation. Advancing from foundation LLMs to
instructionfollowing LLMs, instruction tuning plays a vital role in aligning
LLMs to human preferences. However, the existing LLMs are usually focused on
English, leading to inferior performance in non-English languages. In order to
improve the performance for non-English languages, it is necessary to collect
language-specific training data for foundation LLMs and construct
language-specific instructions for instruction tuning, both of which are heavy
loads. To minimize human workload, we propose to transfer the capabilities of
language generation and instruction following from English to other languages
through an interactive translation task. We have developed BayLing, an
instruction-following LLM by utilizing LLaMA as the foundation LLM and
automatically constructing interactive translation instructions for instructing
tuning. Extensive assessments demonstrate that BayLing achieves comparable
performance to GPT-3.5-turbo, despite utilizing a considerably smaller
parameter size of only 13 billion. Experimental results on translation tasks
show that BayLing achieves 95% of single-turn translation capability compared
to GPT-4 with automatic evaluation and 96% of interactive translation
capability compared to GPT-3.5-turbo with human evaluation. To estimate the
performance on general tasks, we created a multi-turn instruction test set
called BayLing-80. The experimental results on BayLing-80 indicate that BayLing
achieves 89% of performance compared to GPT-3.5-turbo. BayLing also
demonstrates outstanding performance on knowledge assessment of Chinese GaoKao
and English SAT, second only to GPT-3.5-turbo among a multitude of
instruction-following LLMs. Demo, homepage, code and models of BayLing are
available.

---

## 10. [Guiding Language Models of Code with Global Context using Monitors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.10763)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.10763](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10763)

**Authors**: Lakshya A Agrawal, Aditya Kanade, Navin Goyal, Shuvendu K. Lahiri, Sriram K. Rajamani

**Published**: 2023-06-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/monitors4codegen)

### Abstract

Language models of code (LMs) work well when the surrounding code in the
vicinity of generation provides sufficient context. This is not true when it
becomes necessary to use types or functionality defined in another module or
library, especially those not seen during training. LMs suffer from limited
awareness of such global context and end up hallucinating, e.g., using types
defined in other files incorrectly. Recent work tries to overcome this issue by
retrieving global information to augment the local context. However, this
bloats the prompt or requires architecture modifications and additional
training.
  Integrated development environments (IDEs) assist developers by bringing the
global context at their fingertips using static analysis. We extend this
assistance, enjoyed by developers, to the LMs. We propose a notion of monitors
that use static analysis in the background to guide the decoding. Unlike a
priori retrieval, static analysis is invoked iteratively during the entire
decoding process, providing the most relevant suggestions on demand. We
demonstrate the usefulness of our proposal by monitoring for type-consistent
use of identifiers whenever an LM generates code for object dereference.
  To evaluate our approach, we curate PragmaticCode, a dataset of open-source
projects with their development environments. On models of varying parameter
scale, we show that monitor-guided decoding consistently improves the ability
of an LM to not only generate identifiers that match the ground truth but also
improves compilation rates and agreement with ground truth. We find that LMs
with fewer parameters, when guided with our monitor, can outperform larger LMs.
With monitor-guided decoding, SantaCoder-1.1B achieves better compilation rate
and next-identifier match than the much larger text-davinci-003 model. The
datasets and code will be released at https://aka.ms/monitors4codegen .

---

## 11. [Meta-Personalizing Vision-Language Models to Find Named Instances in
  Video](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.10169)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.10169](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10169)

**Authors**: Chun-Hsiao Yeh, Bryan Russell, Josef Sivic, Fabian Caba Heilbron, Simon Jenni

**Published**: 2023-06-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/danielchyeh/this-is-my)

### Abstract

Large-scale vision-language models (VLM) have shown impressive results for
language-guided search applications. While these models allow category-level
queries, they currently struggle with personalized searches for moments in a
video where a specific object instance such as ``My dog Biscuit'' appears. We
present the following three contributions to address this problem. First, we
describe a method to meta-personalize a pre-trained VLM, i.e., learning how to
learn to personalize a VLM at test time to search in video. Our method extends
the VLM's token vocabulary by learning novel word embeddings specific to each
instance. To capture only instance-specific features, we represent each
instance embedding as a combination of shared and learned global category
features. Second, we propose to learn such personalization without explicit
human supervision. Our approach automatically identifies moments of named
visual instances in video using transcripts and vision-language similarity in
the VLM's embedding space. Finally, we introduce This-Is-My, a personal video
instance retrieval benchmark. We evaluate our approach on This-Is-My and
DeepFashion2 and show that we obtain a 15% relative improvement over the state
of the art on the latter dataset.

---

## 12. [Multitrack Music Transcription with a Time-Frequency Perceiver](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.10785)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.10785](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10785)

**Authors**: Wei-Tsung Lu, Ju-Chiang Wang, Yun-Ning Hung

**Published**: 2023-06-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Multitrack music transcription aims to transcribe a music audio input into
the musical notes of multiple instruments simultaneously. It is a very
challenging task that typically requires a more complex model to achieve
satisfactory result. In addition, prior works mostly focus on transcriptions of
regular instruments, however, neglecting vocals, which are usually the most
important signal source if present in a piece of music. In this paper, we
propose a novel deep neural network architecture, Perceiver TF, to model the
time-frequency representation of audio input for multitrack transcription.
Perceiver TF augments the Perceiver architecture by introducing a hierarchical
expansion with an additional Transformer layer to model temporal coherence.
Accordingly, our model inherits the benefits of Perceiver that posses better
scalability, allowing it to well handle transcriptions of many instruments in a
single model. In experiments, we train a Perceiver TF to model 12 instrument
classes as well as vocal in a multi-task learning manner. Our result
demonstrates that the proposed system outperforms the state-of-the-art
counterparts (e.g., MT3 and SpecTNT) on various public datasets.

---
