# Daily Papers - 2023-06-05

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-06-05)

Total papers: 14

---

## 1. [Orca: Progressive Learning from Complex Explanation Traces of GPT-4](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.02707)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.02707](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02707)

**Authors**: Subhabrata Mukherjee, Arindam Mitra, Ganesh Jawahar, Sahaj Agarwal, Hamid Palangi, Ahmed Awadallah

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 51

### Abstract

Recent research has focused on enhancing the capability of smaller models
through imitation learning, drawing on the outputs generated by large
foundation models (LFMs). A number of issues impact the quality of these
models, ranging from limited imitation signals from shallow LFM outputs; small
scale homogeneous training data; and most notably a lack of rigorous evaluation
resulting in overestimating the small model's capability as they tend to learn
to imitate the style, but not the reasoning process of LFMs. To address these
challenges, we develop Orca (We are working with our legal team to publicly
release a diff of the model weights in accordance with LLaMA's release policy
to be published at https://aka.ms/orca-lm), a 13-billion parameter model that
learns to imitate the reasoning process of LFMs. Orca learns from rich signals
from GPT-4 including explanation traces; step-by-step thought processes; and
other complex instructions, guided by teacher assistance from ChatGPT. To
promote this progressive learning, we tap into large-scale and diverse
imitation data with judicious sampling and selection. Orca surpasses
conventional state-of-the-art instruction-tuned models such as Vicuna-13B by
more than 100% in complex zero-shot reasoning benchmarks like Big-Bench Hard
(BBH) and 42% on AGIEval. Moreover, Orca reaches parity with ChatGPT on the BBH
benchmark and shows competitive performance (4 pts gap with optimized system
message) in professional and academic examinations like the SAT, LSAT, GRE, and
GMAT, both in zero-shot settings without CoT; while trailing behind GPT-4. Our
research indicates that learning from step-by-step explanations, whether these
are generated by humans or more advanced AI models, is a promising direction to
improve model capabilities and skills.

---

## 2. [The RefinedWeb Dataset for Falcon LLM: Outperforming Curated Corpora
  with Web Data, and Web Data Only](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01116)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01116](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01116)

**Authors**: Guilherme Penedo, Quentin Malartic, Daniel Hesslow, Ruxandra Cojocaru, Alessandro Cappelli, Hamza Alobeidli, Baptiste Pannier, Ebtesam Almazrouei, Julien Launay

**Published**: 2023-06-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 43

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MindSpore-scientific/code-14)

### Abstract

Large language models are commonly trained on a mixture of filtered web data
and curated high-quality corpora, such as social media conversations, books, or
technical papers. This curation process is believed to be necessary to produce
performant models with broad zero-shot generalization abilities. However, as
larger models requiring pretraining on trillions of tokens are considered, it
is unclear how scalable is curation and whether we will run out of unique
high-quality data soon. At variance with previous beliefs, we show that
properly filtered and deduplicated web data alone can lead to powerful models;
even significantly outperforming models from the state-of-the-art trained on
The Pile. Despite extensive filtering, the high-quality data we extract from
the web is still plentiful, and we are able to obtain five trillion tokens from
CommonCrawl. We publicly release an extract of 600 billion tokens from our
RefinedWeb dataset, and 1.3/7.5B parameters language models trained on it.

---

## 3. [Segment Anything in High Quality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01567)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01567](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01567)

**Authors**: Lei Ke, Mingqiao Ye, Martin Danelljan, Yifan Liu, Yu-Wing Tai, Chi-Keung Tang, Fisher Yu

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/syscv/sam-hq)

### Abstract

The recent Segment Anything Model (SAM) represents a big leap in scaling up
segmentation models, allowing for powerful zero-shot capabilities and flexible
prompting. Despite being trained with 1.1 billion masks, SAM's mask prediction
quality falls short in many cases, particularly when dealing with objects that
have intricate structures. We propose HQ-SAM, equipping SAM with the ability to
accurately segment any object, while maintaining SAM's original promptable
design, efficiency, and zero-shot generalizability. Our careful design reuses
and preserves the pre-trained model weights of SAM, while only introducing
minimal additional parameters and computation. We design a learnable
High-Quality Output Token, which is injected into SAM's mask decoder and is
responsible for predicting the high-quality mask. Instead of only applying it
on mask-decoder features, we first fuse them with early and final ViT features
for improved mask details. To train our introduced learnable parameters, we
compose a dataset of 44K fine-grained masks from several sources. HQ-SAM is
only trained on the introduced detaset of 44k masks, which takes only 4 hours
on 8 GPUs. We show the efficacy of HQ-SAM in a suite of 9 diverse segmentation
datasets across different downstream tasks, where 7 out of them are evaluated
in a zero-shot transfer protocol. Our code and models will be released at
https://github.com/SysCV/SAM-HQ.

---

## 4. [LLM-Blender: Ensembling Large Language Models with Pairwise Ranking and
  Generative Fusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.02561)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.02561](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02561)

**Authors**: Dongfu Jiang, Xiang Ren, Bill Yuchen Lin

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yuchenlin/LLM-Blender)

### Abstract

We present LLM-Blender, an ensembling framework designed to attain
consistently superior performance by leveraging the diverse strengths of
multiple open-source large language models (LLMs). Our framework consists of
two modules: PairRanker and GenFuser, addressing the observation that optimal
LLMs for different examples can significantly vary. PairRanker employs a
specialized pairwise comparison method to distinguish subtle differences
between candidate outputs. It jointly encodes the input text and a pair of
candidates, using cross-attention encoders to determine the superior one. Our
results demonstrate that PairRanker exhibits the highest correlation with
ChatGPT-based ranking. Then, GenFuser aims to merge the top-ranked candidates,
generating an improved output by capitalizing on their strengths and mitigating
their weaknesses. To facilitate large-scale evaluation, we introduce a
benchmark dataset, MixInstruct, which is a mixture of multiple instruction
datasets featuring oracle pairwise comparisons. Our LLM-Blender significantly
outperform individual LLMs and baseline methods across various metrics,
establishing a substantial performance gap.

---

## 5. [InstructZero: Efficient Instruction Optimization for Black-Box Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03082)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03082](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03082)

**Authors**: Lichang Chen, Jiuhai Chen, Tom Goldstein, Heng Huang, Tianyi Zhou

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lichang-chen/instructzero)

### Abstract

Large language models~(LLMs) are instruction followers, but it can be
challenging to find the best instruction for different situations, especially
for black-box LLMs on which backpropagation is forbidden. Instead of directly
optimizing the discrete instruction, we optimize a low-dimensional soft prompt
applied to an open-source LLM to generate the instruction for the black-box
LLM. On each iteration of the proposed method, which we call InstructZero, a
soft prompt is converted into an instruction using the open-source LLM, which
is then submitted to the black-box LLM for zero-shot evaluation, and the
performance is sent to Bayesian optimization to produce new soft prompts
improving the zero-shot performance. We evaluate InstructZero on different
combinations of open-source LLMs and APIs including Vicuna and ChatGPT. Our
results show that InstructZero outperforms SOTA auto-instruction methods across
a variety of downstream tasks. Our code and data are publicly available at
https://github.com/Lichang-Chen/InstructZero.

---

## 6. [Fine-Grained Human Feedback Gives Better Rewards for Language Model
  Training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01693)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01693](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01693)

**Authors**: Zeqiu Wu, Yushi Hu, Weijia Shi, Nouha Dziri, Alane Suhr, Prithviraj Ammanabrolu, Noah A. Smith, Mari Ostendorf, Hannaneh Hajishirzi

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/allenai/FineGrainedRLHF)

### Abstract

Language models (LMs) often exhibit undesirable text generation behaviors,
including generating false, toxic, or irrelevant outputs. Reinforcement
learning from human feedback (RLHF) - where human preference judgments on LM
outputs are transformed into a learning signal - has recently shown promise in
addressing these issues. However, such holistic feedback conveys limited
information on long text outputs; it does not indicate which aspects of the
outputs influenced user preference; e.g., which parts contain what type(s) of
errors. In this paper, we use fine-grained human feedback (e.g., which sentence
is false, which sub-sentence is irrelevant) as an explicit training signal. We
introduce Fine-Grained RLHF, a framework that enables training and learning
from reward functions that are fine-grained in two respects: (1) density,
providing a reward after every segment (e.g., a sentence) is generated; and (2)
incorporating multiple reward models associated with different feedback types
(e.g., factual incorrectness, irrelevance, and information incompleteness). We
conduct experiments on detoxification and long-form question answering to
illustrate how learning with such reward functions leads to improved
performance, supported by both automatic and human evaluation. Additionally, we
show that LM behaviors can be customized using different combinations of
fine-grained reward models. We release all data, collected human feedback, and
codes at https://FineGrainedRLHF.github.io.

---

## 7. [Harnessing large-language models to generate private synthetic text](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01684)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01684](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01684)

**Authors**: Alexey Kurakin, Natalia Ponomareva, Umar Syed, Liam MacDermed, Andreas Terzis

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Differentially private (DP) training methods like DP-SGD can protect
sensitive training data by ensuring that ML models will not reveal private
information. An alternative approach, which this paper studies, is to use a
sensitive dataset to generate a new synthetic dataset which is differentially
private with respect to the original data. Doing so has several advantages:
synthetic data can be reused for other tasks (including for hyper parameter
tuning), retained indefinitely, or shared with third parties without
sacrificing privacy.
  However, obtaining DP data is much harder than introducing DP during
training. To make it feasible for text, recent work has utilized public data by
starting with a pre-trained generative language model and privately finetuning
it on sensitive data. This model can be used to sample a DP synthetic dataset.
While this strategy seems straightforward, executing it has proven problematic.
Previous approaches either show significant performance loss, or have, as we
show, critical design flaws.
  In this paper we demonstrate that a proper training objective along with
tuning fewer parameters results in excellent DP synthetic data quality. Our
approach is competitive with direct DP-training of downstream classifiers in
terms of performance on downstream tasks. We also demonstrate that our DP
synthetic data is not only useful for downstream classifier training, but also
to tune those same models.

---

## 8. [PokemonChat: Auditing ChatGPT for Pokémon Universe Knowledge](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03024)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03024](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03024)

**Authors**: Laura Cabello, Ilias Chalkidis

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

The recently released ChatGPT model demonstrates unprecedented capabilities
in zero-shot question-answering. In this work, we probe ChatGPT for its
conversational understanding and introduce a conversational framework
(protocol) that can be adopted in future studies. The Pok\'emon universe serves
as an ideal testing ground for auditing ChatGPT's reasoning capabilities due to
its closed world assumption. After bringing ChatGPT's background knowledge (on
the Pok\'emon universe) to light, we test its reasoning process when using
these concepts in battle scenarios. We then evaluate its ability to acquire new
knowledge and include it in its reasoning process. Our ultimate goal is to
assess ChatGPT's ability to generalize, combine features, and to acquire and
reason over newly introduced knowledge from human feedback. We find that
ChatGPT has prior knowledge of the Pokemon universe, which can reason upon in
battle scenarios to a great extent, even when new information is introduced.
The model performs better with collaborative feedback and if there is an
initial phase of information retrieval, but also hallucinates occasionally and
is susceptible to adversarial attacks.

---

## 9. [Evaluating Language Models for Mathematics through Interactions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01694)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01694](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01694)

**Authors**: Katherine M. Collins, Albert Q. Jiang, Simon Frieder, Lionel Wong, Miri Zilka, Umang Bhatt, Thomas Lukasiewicz, Yuhuai Wu, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, William Hart, Timothy Gowers, Wenda Li, Adrian Weller, Mateja Jamnik

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/collinskatie/checkmate)

### Abstract

The standard methodology of evaluating large language models (LLMs) based on
static pairs of inputs and outputs is insufficient for developing assistants:
this kind of assessments fails to take into account the essential interactive
element in their deployment, and therefore limits how we understand language
model capabilities. We introduce CheckMate, an adaptable prototype platform for
humans to interact with and evaluate LLMs. We conduct a study with CheckMate to
evaluate three language models~(InstructGPT, ChatGPT, and GPT-4) as assistants
in proving undergraduate-level mathematics, with a mixed cohort of participants
from undergraduate students to professors of mathematics. We release the
resulting interaction and rating dataset, MathConverse. By analysing
MathConverse, we derive a preliminary taxonomy of human behaviours and uncover
that despite a generally positive correlation, there are notable instances of
divergence between correctness and perceived helpfulness in LLM generations,
amongst other findings. Further, we identify useful scenarios and existing
issues of GPT-4 in mathematical reasoning through a series of case studies
contributed by expert mathematicians. We conclude with actionable takeaways for
ML practitioners and mathematicians: models which communicate uncertainty,
respond well to user corrections, are more interpretable and concise may
constitute better assistants; interactive evaluation is a promising way to
continually navigate the capability of these models; humans should be aware of
language models' algebraic fallibility, and for that reason discern where they
should be used.

---

## 10. [An Empirical Study on Challenging Math Problem Solving with GPT-4](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01337)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01337](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01337)

**Authors**: Yiran Wu, Feiran Jia, Shaokun Zhang, Qingyun Wu, Hangyu Li, Erkang Zhu, Yue Wang, Yin Tat Lee, Richard Peng, Chi Wang

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yiranwu0/mathchat)

### Abstract

Employing Large Language Models (LLMs) to address mathematical problems is an
intriguing research endeavor, considering the abundance of math problems
expressed in natural language across numerous science and engineering fields.
While several prior works have investigated solving elementary mathematics
using LLMs, this work explores the frontier of using GPT-4 for solving more
complex and challenging math problems. We evaluate various ways of using GPT-4.
Some of them are adapted from existing work, and one is \MathChat, a
conversational problem-solving framework newly proposed in this work. We
perform the evaluation on difficult high school competition problems from the
MATH dataset, which shows the advantage of the proposed conversational
approach.

---

## 11. [Responsible Task Automation: Empowering Large Language Models as
  Responsible Task Automators](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01242)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01242](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01242)

**Authors**: Zhizheng Zhang, Xiaoyi Zhang, Wenxuan Xie, Yan Lu

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

The recent success of Large Language Models (LLMs) signifies an impressive
stride towards artificial general intelligence. They have shown a promising
prospect in automatically completing tasks upon user instructions, functioning
as brain-like coordinators. The associated risks will be revealed as we
delegate an increasing number of tasks to machines for automated completion. A
big question emerges: how can we make machines behave responsibly when helping
humans automate tasks as personal copilots? In this paper, we explore this
question in depth from the perspectives of feasibility, completeness and
security. In specific, we present Responsible Task Automation (ResponsibleTA)
as a fundamental framework to facilitate responsible collaboration between
LLM-based coordinators and executors for task automation with three empowered
capabilities: 1) predicting the feasibility of the commands for executors; 2)
verifying the completeness of executors; 3) enhancing the security (e.g., the
protection of users' privacy). We further propose and compare two paradigms for
implementing the first two capabilities. One is to leverage the generic
knowledge of LLMs themselves via prompt engineering while the other is to adopt
domain-specific learnable models. Moreover, we introduce a local memory
mechanism for achieving the third capability. We evaluate our proposed
ResponsibleTA on UI task automation and hope it could bring more attentions to
ensuring LLMs more responsible in diverse scenarios. The research project
homepage is at
https://task-automation-research.github.io/responsible_task_automation.

---

## 12. [DaTaSeg: Taming a Universal Multi-Dataset Multi-Task Segmentation Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01736)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01736](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01736)

**Authors**: Xiuye Gu, Yin Cui, Jonathan Huang, Abdullah Rashwan, Xuan Yang, Xingyi Zhou, Golnaz Ghiasi, Weicheng Kuo, Huizhong Chen, Liang-Chieh Chen, David A Ross

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Observing the close relationship among panoptic, semantic and instance
segmentation tasks, we propose to train a universal multi-dataset multi-task
segmentation model: DaTaSeg.We use a shared representation (mask proposals with
class predictions) for all tasks. To tackle task discrepancy, we adopt
different merge operations and post-processing for different tasks. We also
leverage weak-supervision, allowing our segmentation model to benefit from
cheaper bounding box annotations. To share knowledge across datasets, we use
text embeddings from the same semantic embedding space as classifiers and share
all network parameters among datasets. We train DaTaSeg on ADE semantic, COCO
panoptic, and Objects365 detection datasets. DaTaSeg improves performance on
all datasets, especially small-scale datasets, achieving 54.0 mIoU on ADE
semantic and 53.5 PQ on COCO panoptic. DaTaSeg also enables weakly-supervised
knowledge transfer on ADE panoptic and Objects365 instance segmentation.
Experiments show DaTaSeg scales with the number of training datasets and
enables open-vocabulary segmentation through direct transfer. In addition, we
annotate an Objects365 instance segmentation set of 1,000 images and will
release it as a public benchmark.

---

## 13. [Faster Causal Attention Over Large Sequences Through Sparse Flash
  Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01160)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01160](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01160)

**Authors**: Matteo Pagliardini, Daniele Paliotta, Martin Jaggi, François Fleuret

**Published**: 2023-06-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/epfml/dynamic-sparse-flash-attention)

### Abstract

Transformer-based language models have found many diverse applications
requiring them to process sequences of increasing length. For these
applications, the causal self-attention -- which is the only component scaling
quadratically w.r.t. the sequence length -- becomes a central concern. While
many works have proposed schemes to sparsify the attention patterns and reduce
the computational overhead of self-attention, those are often limited by
implementations concerns and end up imposing a simple and static structure over
the attention matrix. Conversely, implementing more dynamic sparse attentions
often results in runtimes significantly slower than computing the full
attention using the Flash implementation from Dao et al. (2022). We extend
FlashAttention to accommodate a large class of attention sparsity patterns
that, in particular, encompass key/query dropping and hashing-based attention.
This leads to implementations with no computational complexity overhead and a
multi-fold runtime speedup on top of FlashAttention. Even with relatively low
degrees of sparsity, our method improves visibly upon FlashAttention as the
sequence length increases. Without sacrificing perplexity, we increase the
training speed of a transformer language model by 2.0times and 3.3times
for sequences of respectively 8k and 16k tokens.

---

## 14. [Reimagining Retrieval Augmented Language Models for Answering Queries](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01061)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01061](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01061)

**Authors**: Wang-Chiew Tan, Yuliang Li, Pedro Rodriguez, Richard James, Xi Victoria Lin, Alon Halevy, Scott Yih

**Published**: 2023-06-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

We present a reality check on large language models and inspect the promise
of retrieval augmented language models in comparison. Such language models are
semi-parametric, where models integrate model parameters and knowledge from
external data sources to make their predictions, as opposed to the parametric
nature of vanilla large language models. We give initial experimental findings
that semi-parametric architectures can be enhanced with views, a query
analyzer/planner, and provenance to make a significantly more powerful system
for question answering in terms of accuracy and efficiency, and potentially for
other NLP tasks

---
