# Daily Papers - 2023-06-06

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-06-06)

Total papers: 20

---

## 1. [Video-LLaMA: An Instruction-tuned Audio-Visual Language Model for Video
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.02858)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.02858](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02858)

**Authors**: Hang Zhang, Xin Li, Lidong Bing

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/damo-nlp-sg/video-llama)

### Abstract

We present Video-LLaMA, a multi-modal framework that empowers Large Language
Models (LLMs) with the capability of understanding both visual and auditory
content in the video. Video-LLaMA bootstraps cross-modal training from the
frozen pre-trained visual \& audio encoders and the frozen LLMs. Unlike
previous vision- LLMs that focus on static image comprehensions such as
MiniGPT-4~zhu2023minigpt and LLaVA~liu2023visualit, Video-LLaMA
tackles two challenges in video understanding: (1) capturing the temporal
changes in visual scenes, (2) integrating audio-visual signals. For the first
challenge, we propose Video Q-former to extend the pre-trained image encoder to
a video encoder and introduce a video-to-text generation task to learn
video-language correspondence. For the second challenge, we leverage
ImageBind~girdhar2023imagebind as the pre-trained audio encoder which
performs exceptionally well in aligning different modalities to a common
embedding space. And then introduce an Audio Q-former to learn auditory query
tokens. To align the output of both visual \& audio encoder with LLM's
embedding space, we train Video-LLaMA on a large-scale vision caption dataset
and a hign-quantity vision-instruction-tuning dataset. We found Video-LLaMA
showcases the ability to perceive and comprehend video content, generating
meaningful responses that are grounded in the visual and auditory information
present in the videos. This highlights the potential of Video-LLaMA as a
promising prototype for audio-visual AI assistants. Our code, pre-trained
model, and demo are available at
https://github.com/DAMO-NLP-SG/Video-LLaMA.

---

## 2. [A Technical Report for Polyglot-Ko: Open-Source Large-Scale Korean
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.02254)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.02254](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02254)

**Authors**: Hyunwoong Ko, Kichang Yang, Minho Ryu, Taekyoon Choi, Seungmu Yang, jiwung Hyun, Sungho Park

**Published**: 2023-06-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Polyglot is a pioneering project aimed at enhancing the non-English language
performance of multilingual language models. Despite the availability of
various multilingual models such as mBERT (Devlin et al., 2019), XGLM (Lin et
al., 2022), and BLOOM (Scao et al., 2022), researchers and developers often
resort to building monolingual models in their respective languages due to the
dissatisfaction with the current multilingual models non-English language
capabilities. Addressing this gap, we seek to develop advanced multilingual
language models that offer improved performance in non-English languages. In
this paper, we introduce the Polyglot Korean models, which represent a specific
focus rather than being multilingual in nature. In collaboration with TUNiB,
our team collected 1.2TB of Korean data meticulously curated for our research
journey. We made a deliberate decision to prioritize the development of Korean
models before venturing into multilingual models. This choice was motivated by
multiple factors: firstly, the Korean models facilitated performance
comparisons with existing multilingual models; and finally, they catered to the
specific needs of Korean companies and researchers. This paper presents our
work in developing the Polyglot Korean models, which propose some steps towards
addressing the non-English language performance gap in multilingual language
models.

---

## 3. [Deductive Verification of Chain-of-Thought Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03872)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03872](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03872)

**Authors**: Zhan Ling, Yunhao Fang, Xuanlin Li, Zhiao Huang, Mingu Lee, Roland Memisevic, Hao Su

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lz1oceani/verify_cot)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) significantly benefit from Chain-of-Thought
(CoT) prompting in performing various reasoning tasks. While CoT allows models
to produce more comprehensive reasoning processes, its emphasis on intermediate
reasoning steps can inadvertently introduce hallucinations and accumulated
errors, thereby limiting models' ability to solve complex reasoning tasks.
Inspired by how humans engage in careful and meticulous deductive logical
reasoning processes to solve tasks, we seek to enable language models to
perform explicit and rigorous deductive reasoning, and also ensure the
trustworthiness of their reasoning process through self-verification. However,
directly verifying the validity of an entire deductive reasoning process is
challenging, even with advanced models like ChatGPT. In light of this, we
propose to decompose a reasoning verification process into a series of
step-by-step subprocesses, each only receiving their necessary context and
premises. To facilitate this procedure, we propose Natural Program, a natural
language-based deductive reasoning format. Our approach enables models to
generate precise reasoning steps where subsequent steps are more rigorously
grounded on prior steps. It also empowers language models to carry out
reasoning self-verification in a step-by-step manner. By integrating this
verification process into each deductive reasoning stage, we significantly
enhance the rigor and trustfulness of generated reasoning steps. Along this
process, we also improve the answer correctness on complex reasoning tasks.
Code will be released at https://github.com/lz1oceani/verify_cot.

---

## 4. [Mega-TTS: Zero-Shot Text-to-Speech at Scale with Intrinsic Inductive
  Bias](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03509)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03509](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03509)

**Authors**: Ziyue Jiang, Yi Ren, Zhenhui Ye, Jinglin Liu, Chen Zhang, Qian Yang, Shengpeng Ji, Rongjie Huang, Chunfeng Wang, Xiang Yin, Zejun Ma, Zhou Zhao

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Scaling text-to-speech to a large and wild dataset has been proven to be
highly effective in achieving timbre and speech style generalization,
particularly in zero-shot TTS. However, previous works usually encode speech
into latent using audio codec and use autoregressive language models or
diffusion models to generate it, which ignores the intrinsic nature of speech
and may lead to inferior or uncontrollable results. We argue that speech can be
decomposed into several attributes (e.g., content, timbre, prosody, and phase)
and each of them should be modeled using a module with appropriate inductive
biases. From this perspective, we carefully design a novel and large zero-shot
TTS system called Mega-TTS, which is trained with large-scale wild data and
models different attributes in different ways: 1) Instead of using latent
encoded by audio codec as the intermediate feature, we still choose spectrogram
as it separates the phase and other attributes very well. Phase can be
appropriately constructed by the GAN-based vocoder and does not need to be
modeled by the language model. 2) We model the timbre using global vectors
since timbre is a global attribute that changes slowly over time. 3) We further
use a VQGAN-based acoustic model to generate the spectrogram and a latent code
language model to fit the distribution of prosody, since prosody changes
quickly over time in a sentence, and language models can capture both local and
long-range dependencies. We scale Mega-TTS to multi-domain datasets with 20K
hours of speech and evaluate its performance on unseen speakers. Experimental
results demonstrate that Mega-TTS surpasses state-of-the-art TTS systems on
zero-shot TTS, speech editing, and cross-lingual TTS tasks, with superior
naturalness, robustness, and speaker similarity due to the proper inductive
bias of each module. Audio samples are available at
https://mega-tts.github.io/demo-page.

---

## 5. [MotionDiffuser: Controllable Multi-Agent Motion Prediction using
  Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03083)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03083](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03083)

**Authors**: Chiyu Max Jiang, Andre Cornman, Cheolho Park, Ben Sapp, Yin Zhou, Dragomir Anguelov

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

We present MotionDiffuser, a diffusion based representation for the joint
distribution of future trajectories over multiple agents. Such representation
has several key advantages: first, our model learns a highly multimodal
distribution that captures diverse future outcomes. Second, the simple
predictor design requires only a single L2 loss training objective, and does
not depend on trajectory anchors. Third, our model is capable of learning the
joint distribution for the motion of multiple agents in a permutation-invariant
manner. Furthermore, we utilize a compressed trajectory representation via PCA,
which improves model performance and allows for efficient computation of the
exact sample log probability. Subsequently, we propose a general constrained
sampling framework that enables controlled trajectory sampling based on
differentiable cost functions. This strategy enables a host of applications
such as enforcing rules and physical priors, or creating tailored simulation
scenarios. MotionDiffuser can be combined with existing backbone architectures
to achieve top motion forecasting results. We obtain state-of-the-art results
for multi-agent motion prediction on the Waymo Open Motion Dataset.

---

## 6. [HeadSculpt: Crafting 3D Head Avatars with Text](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03038)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03038](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03038)

**Authors**: Xiao Han, Yukang Cao, Kai Han, Xiatian Zhu, Jiankang Deng, Yi-Zhe Song, Tao Xiang, Kwan-Yee K. Wong

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Recently, text-guided 3D generative methods have made remarkable advancements
in producing high-quality textures and geometry, capitalizing on the
proliferation of large vision-language and image diffusion models. However,
existing methods still struggle to create high-fidelity 3D head avatars in two
aspects: (1) They rely mostly on a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model
whilst missing the necessary 3D awareness and head priors. This makes them
prone to inconsistency and geometric distortions in the generated avatars. (2)
They fall short in fine-grained editing. This is primarily due to the inherited
limitations from the pre-trained 2D image diffusion models, which become more
pronounced when it comes to 3D head avatars. In this work, we address these
challenges by introducing a versatile coarse-to-fine pipeline dubbed HeadSculpt
for crafting (i.e., generating and editing) 3D head avatars from textual
prompts. Specifically, we first equip the diffusion model with 3D awareness by
leveraging landmark-based control and a learned textual embedding representing
the back view appearance of heads, enabling 3D-consistent head avatar
generations. We further propose a novel identity-aware editing score
distillation strategy to optimize a textured mesh with a high-resolution
differentiable rendering technique. This enables identity preservation while
following the editing instruction. We showcase HeadSculpt's superior fidelity
and editing capabilities through comprehensive experiments and comparisons with
existing methods.

---

## 7. [PolyVoice: Language Models for Speech to Speech Translation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.02982)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.02982](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02982)

**Authors**: Qianqian Dong, Zhiying Huang, Chen Xu, Yunlong Zhao, Kexin Wang, Xuxin Cheng, Tom Ko, Qiao Tian, Tang Li, Fengpeng Yue, Ye Bai, Xi Chen, Lu Lu, Zejun Ma, Yuping Wang, Mingxuan Wang, Yuxuan Wang

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

We propose PolyVoice, a language model-based framework for speech-to-speech
translation (S2ST) system. Our framework consists of two language models: a
translation language model and a speech synthesis language model. We use
discretized speech units, which are generated in a fully unsupervised way, and
thus our framework can be used for unwritten languages. For the speech
synthesis part, we adopt the existing VALL-E X approach and build a unit-based
audio language model. This grants our framework the ability to preserve the
voice characteristics and the speaking style of the original speech. We examine
our system on Chinese rightarrow English and English rightarrow Spanish
pairs. Experimental results show that our system can generate speech with high
translation quality and audio quality. Speech samples are available at
https://speechtranslation.github.io/polyvoice.

---

## 8. [A Static Evaluation of Code Completion by Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03203)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03203](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03203)

**Authors**: Hantian Ding, Varun Kumar, Yuchen Tian, Zijian Wang, Rob Kwiatkowski, Xiaopeng Li, Murali Krishna Ramanathan, Baishakhi Ray, Parminder Bhatia, Sudipta Sengupta, Dan Roth, Bing Xiang

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Large language models trained on code have shown great potential to increase
productivity of software developers. Several execution-based benchmarks have
been proposed to evaluate functional correctness of model-generated code on
simple programming problems. Nevertheless, it is expensive to perform the same
evaluation on complex real-world projects considering the execution cost. On
the contrary, static analysis tools such as linters, which can detect errors
without running the program, haven't been well explored for evaluating code
generation models. In this work, we propose a static evaluation framework to
quantify static errors in Python code completions, by leveraging Abstract
Syntax Trees. Compared with execution-based evaluation, our method is not only
more efficient, but also applicable to code in the wild. For experiments, we
collect code context from open source repos to generate one million function
bodies using public models. Our static analysis reveals that Undefined Name and
Unused Variable are the most common errors among others made by language
models. Through extensive studies, we also show the impact of sampling
temperature, model size, and context on static errors in code completions.

---

## 9. [Neuralangelo: High-Fidelity Neural Surface Reconstruction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03092)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03092](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03092)

**Authors**: Zhaoshuo Li, Thomas Müller, Alex Evans, Russell H. Taylor, Mathias Unberath, Ming-Yu Liu, Chen-Hsuan Lin

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NVlabs/neuralangelo)

### Abstract

Neural surface reconstruction has been shown to be powerful for recovering
dense 3D surfaces via image-based neural rendering. However, current methods
struggle to recover detailed structures of real-world scenes. To address the
issue, we present Neuralangelo, which combines the representation power of
multi-resolution 3D hash grids with neural surface rendering. Two key
ingredients enable our approach: (1) numerical gradients for computing
higher-order derivatives as a smoothing operation and (2) coarse-to-fine
optimization on the hash grids controlling different levels of details. Even
without auxiliary inputs such as depth, Neuralangelo can effectively recover
dense 3D surface structures from multi-view images with fidelity significantly
surpassing previous methods, enabling detailed large-scale scene reconstruction
from RGB video captures.

---

## 10. [The Surprising Effectiveness of Diffusion Models for Optical Flow and
  Monocular Depth Estimation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01923)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01923](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01923)

**Authors**: Saurabh Saxena, Charles Herrmann, Junhwa Hur, Abhishek Kar, Mohammad Norouzi, Deqing Sun, David J. Fleet

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Denoising diffusion probabilistic models have transformed image generation
with their impressive fidelity and diversity. We show that they also excel in
estimating optical flow and monocular depth, surprisingly, without
task-specific architectures and loss functions that are predominant for these
tasks. Compared to the point estimates of conventional regression-based
methods, diffusion models also enable Monte Carlo inference, e.g., capturing
uncertainty and ambiguity in flow and depth. With self-supervised pre-training,
the combined use of synthetic and real data for supervised training, and
technical innovations (infilling and step-unrolled denoising diffusion
training) to handle noisy-incomplete training data, and a simple form of
coarse-to-fine refinement, one can train state-of-the-art diffusion models for
depth and optical flow estimation. Extensive experiments focus on quantitative
performance against benchmarks, ablations, and the model's ability to capture
uncertainty and multimodality, and impute missing values. Our model, DDVM
(Denoising Diffusion Vision Model), obtains a state-of-the-art relative depth
error of 0.074 on the indoor NYU benchmark and an Fl-all outlier rate of 3.26\%
on the KITTI optical flow benchmark, about 25\% better than the best published
method. For an overview see https://diffusion-vision.github.io.

---

## 11. [Binary and Ternary Natural Language Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01841)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01841](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01841)

**Authors**: Zechun Liu, Barlas Oguz, Aasish Pappu, Yangyang Shi, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/ternary_binary_transformer)

### Abstract

Ternary and binary neural networks enable multiplication-free computation and
promise multiple orders of magnitude efficiency gains over full-precision
networks if implemented on specialized hardware. However, since both the
parameter and the output space are highly discretized, such networks have
proven very difficult to optimize. The difficulties are compounded for the
class of transformer text generation models due to the sensitivity of the
attention operation to quantization and the noise-compounding effects of
autoregressive decoding in the high-cardinality output space. We approach the
problem with a mix of statistics-based quantization for the weights and elastic
quantization of the activations and demonstrate the first ternary and binary
transformer models on the downstream tasks of summarization and machine
translation. Our ternary BART base achieves an R1 score of 41 on the
CNN/DailyMail benchmark, which is merely 3.9 points behind the full model while
being 16x more efficient. Our binary model, while less accurate, achieves a
highly non-trivial score of 35.6. For machine translation, we achieved BLEU
scores of 21.7 and 17.6 on the WMT16 En-Ro benchmark, compared with a full
precision mBART model score of 26.8. We also compare our approach in the 8-bit
activation setting, where our ternary and even binary weight models can match
or outperform the best existing 8-bit weight models in the literature. Our code
and models are available at:
https://github.com/facebookresearch/Ternary_Binary_Transformer

---

## 12. [LEACE: Perfect linear concept erasure in closed form](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03819)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03819](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03819)

**Authors**: Nora Belrose, David Schneider-Joseph, Shauli Ravfogel, Ryan Cotterell, Edward Raff, Stella Biderman

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/eleutherai/concept-erasure)

### Abstract

Concept erasure aims to remove specified features from a representation. It
can be used to improve fairness (e.g. preventing a classifier from using gender
or race) and interpretability (e.g. removing a concept to observe changes in
model behavior). In this paper, we introduce LEAst-squares Concept Erasure
(LEACE), a closed-form method which provably prevents all linear classifiers
from detecting a concept while inflicting the least possible damage to the
representation. We apply LEACE to large language models with a novel procedure
called "concept scrubbing," which erases target concept information from every
layer in the network. We demonstrate the usefulness of our method on two tasks:
measuring the reliance of language models on part-of-speech information, and
reducing gender bias in BERT embeddings. Code is available at
https://github.com/EleutherAI/concept-erasure.

---

## 13. [Natural Language Commanding via Program Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03460)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03460](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03460)

**Authors**: Apurva Gandhi, Thong Q. Nguyen, Huitian Jiao, Robert Steen, Ameya Bhatawdekar

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

We present Semantic Interpreter, a natural language-friendly AI system for
productivity software such as Microsoft Office that leverages large language
models (LLMs) to execute user intent across application features. While LLMs
are excellent at understanding user intent expressed as natural language, they
are not sufficient for fulfilling application-specific user intent that
requires more than text-to-text transformations. We therefore introduce the
Office Domain Specific Language (ODSL), a concise, high-level language
specialized for performing actions in and interacting with entities in Office
applications. Semantic Interpreter leverages an Analysis-Retrieval prompt
construction method with LLMs for program synthesis, translating natural
language user utterances to ODSL programs that can be transpiled to application
APIs and then executed. We focus our discussion primarily on a research
exploration for Microsoft PowerPoint.

---

## 14. [Large Language Models of Code Fail at Completing Code with Potential
  Bugs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03438)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03438](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03438)

**Authors**: Tuan Dinh, Jinman Zhao, Samson Tan, Renato Negrinho, Leonard Lausen, Sheng Zha, George Karypis

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/amazon-science/buggy-code-completion)

### Abstract

Large language models of code (Code-LLMs) have recently brought tremendous
advances to code completion, a fundamental feature of programming assistance
and code intelligence. However, most existing works ignore the possible
presence of bugs in the code context for generation, which are inevitable in
software development. Therefore, we introduce and study the buggy-code
completion problem, inspired by the realistic scenario of real-time code
suggestion where the code context contains potential bugs -- anti-patterns that
can become bugs in the completed program. To systematically study the task, we
introduce two datasets: one with synthetic bugs derived from semantics-altering
operator changes (buggy-HumanEval) and one with realistic bugs derived from
user submissions to coding problems (buggy-FixEval). We find that the presence
of potential bugs significantly degrades the generation performance of the
high-performing Code-LLMs. For instance, the passing rates of CodeGen-2B-mono
on test cases of buggy-HumanEval drop more than 50% given a single potential
bug in the context. Finally, we investigate several post-hoc methods for
mitigating the adverse effect of potential bugs and find that there remains a
large gap in post-mitigation performance.

---

## 15. [SAM3D: Zero-Shot 3D Object Detection via Segment Anything Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.02245)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.02245](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02245)

**Authors**: Dingyuan Zhang, Dingkang Liang, Hongcheng Yang, Zhikang Zou, Xiaoqing Ye, Zhe Liu, Xiang Bai

**Published**: 2023-06-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dyzhang09/sam3d)

### Abstract

With the development of large language models, many remarkable linguistic
systems like ChatGPT have thrived and achieved astonishing success on many
tasks, showing the incredible power of foundation models. In the spirit of
unleashing the capability of foundation models on vision tasks, the Segment
Anything Model (SAM), a vision foundation model for image segmentation, has
been proposed recently and presents strong zero-shot ability on many downstream
2D tasks. However, whether SAM can be adapted to 3D vision tasks has yet to be
explored, especially 3D object detection. With this inspiration, we explore
adapting the zero-shot ability of SAM to 3D object detection in this paper. We
propose a SAM-powered BEV processing pipeline to detect objects and get
promising results on the large-scale Waymo open dataset. As an early attempt,
our method takes a step toward 3D object detection with vision foundation
models and presents the opportunity to unleash their power on 3D vision tasks.
The code is released at https://github.com/DYZhang09/SAM3D.

---

## 16. [Probabilistic Adaptation of Text-to-Video Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01872)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01872](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01872)

**Authors**: Mengjiao Yang, Yilun Du, Bo Dai, Dale Schuurmans, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, Pieter Abbeel

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Large text-to-video models trained on internet-scale data have demonstrated
exceptional capabilities in generating high-fidelity videos from arbitrary
textual descriptions. However, adapting these models to tasks with limited
domain-specific data, such as animation or robotics videos, poses a significant
computational challenge, since finetuning a pretrained large model can be
prohibitively expensive. Inspired by how a small modifiable component (e.g.,
prompts, prefix-tuning) can adapt a large language model to perform new tasks
without requiring access to the model weights, we investigate how to adapt a
large pretrained text-to-video model to a variety of downstream domains and
tasks without finetuning. In answering this question, we propose Video Adapter,
which leverages the score function of a large pretrained video diffusion model
as a probabilistic prior to guide the generation of a task-specific small video
model. Our experiments show that Video Adapter is capable of incorporating the
broad knowledge and preserving the high fidelity of a large pretrained video
model in a task-specific small video model that is able to generate
high-quality yet specialized videos on a variety of tasks such as animation,
egocentric modeling, and modeling of simulated and real-world robotics data.
More videos can be found on the website https://video-adapter.github.io/.

---

## 17. [GPT Models Meet Robotic Applications: Co-Speech Gesturing Chat System](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01741)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01741](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01741)

**Authors**: Naoki Wake, Atsushi Kanehira, Kazuhiro Sasabuchi, Jun Takamatsu, Katsushi Ikeuchi

**Published**: 2023-05-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

This technical paper introduces a chatting robot system that utilizes recent
advancements in large-scale language models (LLMs) such as GPT-3 and ChatGPT.
The system is integrated with a co-speech gesture generation system, which
selects appropriate gestures based on the conceptual meaning of speech. Our
motivation is to explore ways of utilizing the recent progress in LLMs for
practical robotic applications, which benefits the development of both chatbots
and LLMs. Specifically, it enables the development of highly responsive chatbot
systems by leveraging LLMs and adds visual effects to the user interface of
LLMs as an additional value. The source code for the system is available on
GitHub for our in-house robot
(https://github.com/microsoft/LabanotationSuite/tree/master/MSRAbotChatSimulation)
and GitHub for Toyota HSR
(https://github.com/microsoft/GPT-Enabled-HSR-CoSpeechGestures).

---

## 18. [PLANNER: Generating Diversified Paragraph via Latent Language Diffusion
  Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.02531)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.02531](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02531)

**Authors**: Yizhe Zhang, Jiatao Gu, Zhuofeng Wu, Shuangfei Zhai, Josh Susskind, Navdeep Jaitly

**Published**: 2023-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/apple/ml-planner)

### Abstract

Autoregressive models for text sometimes generate repetitive and low-quality
output because errors accumulate during the steps of generation. This issue is
often attributed to exposure bias - the difference between how a model is
trained, and how it is used during inference. Denoising diffusion models
provide an alternative approach in which a model can revisit and revise its
output. However, they can be computationally expensive and prior efforts on
text have led to models that produce less fluent output compared to
autoregressive models, especially for longer text and paragraphs. In this
paper, we propose PLANNER, a model that combines latent semantic diffusion with
autoregressive generation, to generate fluent text while exercising global
control over paragraphs. The model achieves this by combining an autoregressive
"decoding" module with a "planning" module that uses latent diffusion to
generate semantic paragraph embeddings in a coarse-to-fine manner. The proposed
method is evaluated on various conditional generation tasks, and results on
semantic generation, text completion and summarization show its effectiveness
in generating high-quality long-form text in an efficient manner.

---

## 19. [VisualGPTScore: Visio-Linguistic Reasoning with Multimodal Generative
  Pre-Training Scores](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01879)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01879](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01879)

**Authors**: Zhiqiu Lin, Xinyue Chen, Deepak Pathak, Pengchuan Zhang, Deva Ramanan

**Published**: 2023-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/linzhiqiu/visual_gpt_score)

### Abstract

Vision-language models (VLMs) discriminatively pre-trained with contrastive
image-text matching losses such as P(match|text, image)
have been criticized for lacking compositional understanding. This means they
might output similar scores even if the original caption is rearranged into a
different semantic statement. To address this, we propose to use the {bf
V}isual {bf G}enerative {bf P}re-{bf T}raining Score ({bf
VisualGPTScore}) of P(text|image), a multimodal
generative score that captures the likelihood of a text caption conditioned
on an image using an image-conditioned language model. Contrary to the belief
that VLMs are mere bag-of-words models, our off-the-shelf VisualGPTScore
demonstrates top-tier performance on recently proposed image-text retrieval
benchmarks like ARO and Crepe that assess compositional reasoning. Furthermore,
we factorize VisualGPTScore into a product of the marginal P(text)
and the Pointwise Mutual Information (PMI). This helps to (a)
diagnose datasets with strong language bias, and (b) debias results on other
benchmarks like Winoground using an information-theoretic framework.
VisualGPTScore provides valuable insights and serves as a strong baseline for
future evaluation of visio-linguistic compositionality.

---

## 20. [Transformer-based Vulnerability Detection in Code at EditTime:
  Zero-shot, Few-shot, or Fine-tuning?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.01754)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.01754](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01754)

**Authors**: Aaron Chan, Anant Kharkar, Roshanak Zilouchian Moghaddam, Yevhen Mohylevskyy, Alec Helyar, Eslam Kamal, Mohamed Elkamhawy, Neel Sundaresan

**Published**: 2023-05-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Software vulnerabilities bear enterprises significant costs. Despite
extensive efforts in research and development of software vulnerability
detection methods, uncaught vulnerabilities continue to put software owners and
users at risk. Many current vulnerability detection methods require that code
snippets can compile and build before attempting detection. This,
unfortunately, introduces a long latency between the time a vulnerability is
injected to the time it is removed, which can substantially increases the cost
of fixing a vulnerability. We recognize that the current advances in machine
learning can be used to detect vulnerable code patterns on syntactically
incomplete code snippets as the developer is writing the code at EditTime. In
this paper we present a practical system that leverages deep learning on a
large-scale data set of vulnerable code patterns to learn complex
manifestations of more than 250 vulnerability types and detect vulnerable code
patterns at EditTime. We discuss zero-shot, few-shot, and fine-tuning
approaches on state of the art pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs). We
show that in comparison with state of the art vulnerability detection models
our approach improves the state of the art by 10%. We also evaluate our
approach to detect vulnerability in auto-generated code by code LLMs.
Evaluation on a benchmark of high-risk code scenarios shows a reduction of up
to 90% vulnerability reduction.

---
