# Daily Papers - 2023-06-26

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-06-26)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [On-Policy Distillation of Language Models: Learning from Self-Generated
  Mistakes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.13649)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.13649](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13649)

**Authors**: Rishabh Agarwal, Nino Vieillard, Yongchao Zhou, Piotr Stanczyk, Sabela Ramos, Matthieu Geist, Olivier Bachem

**Published**: 2023-06-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

### Abstract

Knowledge distillation (KD) is widely used for compressing a teacher model to
reduce its inference cost and memory footprint, by training a smaller student
model. However, current KD methods for auto-regressive sequence models suffer
from distribution mismatch between output sequences seen during training and
those generated by the student during inference. To address this issue, we
introduce Generalized Knowledge Distillation (GKD). Instead of solely relying
on a fixed set of output sequences, GKD trains the student on its
self-generated output sequences by leveraging feedback from the teacher on such
sequences. Unlike supervised KD approaches, GKD also offers the flexibility to
employ alternative loss functions between the student and teacher, which can be
useful when the student lacks the expressivity to mimic the teacher's
distribution. Furthermore, GKD facilitates the seamless integration of
distillation with RL fine-tuning (RLHF). We demonstrate the efficacy of GKD for
distilling auto-regressive language models on summarization, translation, and
arithmetic reasoning tasks, and task-agnostic distillation for
instruction-tuning.

---

## 2. [Scaling MLPs: A Tale of Inductive Bias](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.13575)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.13575](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13575)

**Authors**: Gregor Bachmann, Sotiris Anagnostidis, Thomas Hofmann

**Published**: 2023-06-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gregorbachmann/scaling_mlps)

### Abstract

In this work we revisit the most fundamental building block in deep learning,
the multi-layer perceptron (MLP), and study the limits of its performance on
vision tasks. Empirical insights into MLPs are important for multiple reasons.
(1) Given the recent narrative "less inductive bias is better", popularized due
to transformers eclipsing convolutional models, it is natural to explore the
limits of this hypothesis. To that end, MLPs offer an ideal test bed, being
completely free of any inductive bias. (2) MLPs have almost exclusively been
the main protagonist in the deep learning theory literature due to their
mathematical simplicity, serving as a proxy to explain empirical phenomena
observed for more complex architectures. Surprisingly, experimental datapoints
for MLPs are very difficult to find in the literature, especially when coupled
with large pre-training protocols. This discrepancy between practice and theory
is worrying: Do MLPs reflect the empirical advances exhibited by practical
models? Or do theorists need to rethink the role of MLPs as a proxy? We provide
insights into both these aspects. We show that the performance of MLPs
drastically improves with scale (93% on CIFAR10, 79% on CIFAR100, 69% on
TinyImageNet), highlighting that lack of inductive bias can indeed be
compensated. We observe that MLPs mimic the behaviour of their modern
counterparts faithfully, with some components in the learning setting however
surprisingly exhibiting stronger or unexpected behaviours. Due to their
inherent computational efficiency, large pre-training experiments become more
accessible for academic researchers. All of our experiments were run on a
single GPU.

---

## 3. [Long-range Language Modeling with Self-retrieval](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.13421)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.13421](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13421)

**Authors**: Ohad Rubin, Jonathan Berant

**Published**: 2023-06-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Retrieval-augmented language models (LMs) have received much attention
recently. However, typically the retriever is not trained jointly as a native
component of the LM, but added to an already-pretrained LM, which limits the
ability of the LM and the retriever to adapt to one another. In this work, we
propose the Retrieval-Pretrained Transformer (RPT), an architecture and
training procedure for jointly training a retrieval-augmented LM from scratch
for the task of modeling long texts. Given a recently generated text chunk in a
long document, the LM computes query representations, which are then used to
retrieve earlier chunks in the document, located potentially tens of thousands
of tokens before. Information from retrieved chunks is fused into the LM
representations to predict the next target chunk. We train the retriever
component with a semantic objective, where the goal is to retrieve chunks that
increase the probability of the next chunk, according to a reference LM. We
evaluate RPT on four long-range language modeling tasks, spanning books, code,
and mathematical writing, and demonstrate that RPT improves retrieval quality
and subsequently perplexity across the board compared to strong baselines.

---

## 4. [Bring Your Own Data! Self-Supervised Evaluation for Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.13651)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.13651](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13651)

**Authors**: Neel Jain, Khalid Saifullah, Yuxin Wen, John Kirchenbauer, Manli Shu, Aniruddha Saha, Micah Goldblum, Jonas Geiping, Tom Goldstein

**Published**: 2023-06-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/neelsjain/byod)

### Abstract

With the rise of Large Language Models (LLMs) and their ubiquitous deployment
in diverse domains, measuring language model behavior on realistic data is
imperative. For example, a company deploying a client-facing chatbot must
ensure that the model will not respond to client requests with profanity.
Current evaluations approach this problem using small, domain-specific datasets
with human-curated labels. These evaluation sets are often sampled from a
narrow and simplified distribution, and data sources can unknowingly be leaked
into the training set which can lead to misleading evaluations. To bypass these
drawbacks, we propose a framework for self-supervised evaluation of LLMs by
analyzing their sensitivity or invariance to transformations on the input text.
Self-supervised evaluation can directly monitor LLM behavior on datasets
collected in the wild or streamed during live model deployment. We demonstrate
self-supervised evaluation strategies for measuring closed-book knowledge,
toxicity, and long-range context dependence, in addition to sensitivity to
grammatical structure and tokenization errors. When comparisons to similar
human-labeled benchmarks are available, we find strong correlations between
self-supervised and human-supervised evaluations. The self-supervised paradigm
complements current evaluation strategies that rely on labeled data.

---

## 5. [OpenMask3D: Open-Vocabulary 3D Instance Segmentation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.13631)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.13631](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13631)

**Authors**: Ayça Takmaz, Elisabetta Fedele, Robert W. Sumner, Marc Pollefeys, Federico Tombari, Francis Engelmann

**Published**: 2023-06-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OpenMask3D/openmask3d) | [Project Page](https://openmask3d.github.io/)

### Abstract

We introduce the task of open-vocabulary 3D instance segmentation.
Traditional approaches for 3D instance segmentation largely rely on existing 3D
annotated datasets, which are restricted to a closed-set of object categories.
This is an important limitation for real-life applications where one might need
to perform tasks guided by novel, open-vocabulary queries related to objects
from a wide variety. Recently, open-vocabulary 3D scene understanding methods
have emerged to address this problem by learning queryable features per each
point in the scene. While such a representation can be directly employed to
perform semantic segmentation, existing methods have limitations in their
ability to identify object instances. In this work, we address this limitation,
and propose OpenMask3D, which is a zero-shot approach for open-vocabulary 3D
instance segmentation. Guided by predicted class-agnostic 3D instance masks,
our model aggregates per-mask features via multi-view fusion of CLIP-based
image embeddings. We conduct experiments and ablation studies on the ScanNet200
dataset to evaluate the performance of OpenMask3D, and provide insights about
the open-vocabulary 3D instance segmentation task. We show that our approach
outperforms other open-vocabulary counterparts, particularly on the long-tail
distribution. Furthermore, OpenMask3D goes beyond the limitations of
close-vocabulary approaches, and enables the segmentation of object instances
based on free-form queries describing object properties such as semantics,
geometry, affordances, and material properties.

---

## 6. [System-Level Natural Language Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.13588)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.13588](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13588)

**Authors**: Weizhe Yuan, Kyunghyun Cho, Jason Weston

**Published**: 2023-06-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yyy-apple/sys-nl-feedback)

### Abstract

Natural language (NL) feedback contains rich information about the user
experience. Existing studies focus on an instance-level approach, where
feedback is used to refine specific examples, disregarding its system-wide
application. This paper proposes a general framework for unlocking the
system-level use of NL feedback. We show how to use feedback to formalize
system-level design decisions in a human-in-the-loop-process -- in order to
produce better models. In particular this is done through: (i) metric design
for tasks; and (ii) language model prompt design for refining model responses.
We conduct two case studies of this approach for improving search query
generation and dialog response generation, demonstrating the effectiveness of
the use of system-level feedback. We show the combination of system-level
feedback and instance-level feedback brings further gains, and that human
written instance-level feedback results in more grounded refinements than
GPT-3.5 written ones, underlying the importance of human feedback for building
systems.

---

## 7. [DreamEditor: Text-Driven 3D Scene Editing with Neural Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.13455)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.13455](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13455)

**Authors**: Jingyu Zhuang, Chen Wang, Lingjie Liu, Liang Lin, Guanbin Li

**Published**: 2023-06-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zjy526223908/dreameditor)

### Abstract

Neural fields have achieved impressive advancements in view synthesis and
scene reconstruction. However, editing these neural fields remains challenging
due to the implicit encoding of geometry and texture information. In this
paper, we propose DreamEditor, a novel framework that enables users to perform
controlled editing of neural fields using text prompts. By representing scenes
as mesh-based neural fields, DreamEditor allows localized editing within
specific regions. DreamEditor utilizes the text encoder of a pretrained
text-to-Image diffusion model to automatically identify the regions to be
edited based on the semantics of the text prompts. Subsequently, DreamEditor
optimizes the editing region and aligns its geometry and texture with the text
prompts through score distillation sampling [29]. Extensive experiments have
demonstrated that DreamEditor can accurately edit neural fields of real-world
scenes according to the given text prompts while ensuring consistency in
irrelevant areas. DreamEditor generates highly realistic textures and geometry,
significantly surpassing previous works in both quantitative and qualitative
evaluations.

---
