# Daily Papers - 2023-06-29

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-06-29)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [Towards Language Models That Can See: Computer Vision Through the LENS
  of Natural Language](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16410)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16410](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16410)

**Authors**: William Berrios, Gautam Mittal, Tristan Thrush, Douwe Kiela, Amanpreet Singh

**Published**: 2023-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/contextualai/lens)

### Abstract

We propose LENS, a modular approach for tackling computer vision problems by
leveraging the power of large language models (LLMs). Our system uses a
language model to reason over outputs from a set of independent and highly
descriptive vision modules that provide exhaustive information about an image.
We evaluate the approach on pure computer vision settings such as zero- and
few-shot object recognition, as well as on vision and language problems. LENS
can be applied to any off-the-shelf LLM and we find that the LLMs with LENS
perform highly competitively with much bigger and much more sophisticated
systems, without any multimodal training whatsoever. We open-source our code at
https://github.com/ContextualAI/lens and provide an interactive demo.

---

## 2. [Generative AI for Programming Education: Benchmarking ChatGPT, GPT-4,
  and Human Tutors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.17156)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.17156](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17156)

**Authors**: Tung Phung, Victor-Alexandru Pădurean, José Cambronero, Sumit Gulwani, Tobias Kohn, Rupak Majumdar, Adish Singla, Gustavo Soares

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Generative AI and large language models hold great promise in enhancing
computing education by powering next-generation educational technologies for
introductory programming. Recent works have studied these models for different
scenarios relevant to programming education; however, these works are limited
for several reasons, as they typically consider already outdated models or only
specific scenario(s). Consequently, there is a lack of a systematic study that
benchmarks state-of-the-art models for a comprehensive set of programming
education scenarios. In our work, we systematically evaluate two models,
ChatGPT (based on GPT-3.5) and GPT-4, and compare their performance with human
tutors for a variety of scenarios. We evaluate using five introductory Python
programming problems and real-world buggy programs from an online platform, and
assess performance using expert-based annotations. Our results show that GPT-4
drastically outperforms ChatGPT (based on GPT-3.5) and comes close to human
tutors' performance for several scenarios. These results also highlight
settings where GPT-4 still struggles, providing exciting future directions on
developing techniques to improve the performance of these models.

---

## 3. [HyenaDNA: Long-Range Genomic Sequence Modeling at Single Nucleotide
  Resolution](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.15794)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.15794](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.15794)

**Authors**: Eric Nguyen, Michael Poli, Marjan Faizi, Armin Thomas, Callum Birch-Sykes, Michael Wornow, Aman Patel, Clayton Rabideau, Stefano Massaroli, Yoshua Bengio, Stefano Ermon, Stephen A. Baccus, Chris Ré

**Published**: 2023-06-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/HazyResearch/hyena-dna)

### Abstract

Genomic (DNA) sequences encode an enormous amount of information for gene
regulation and protein synthesis. Similar to natural language models,
researchers have proposed foundation models in genomics to learn generalizable
features from unlabeled genome data that can then be fine-tuned for downstream
tasks such as identifying regulatory elements. Due to the quadratic scaling of
attention, previous Transformer-based genomic models have used 512 to 4k tokens
as context (<0.001% of the human genome), significantly limiting the modeling
of long-range interactions in DNA. In addition, these methods rely on
tokenizers to aggregate meaningful DNA units, losing single nucleotide
resolution where subtle genetic variations can completely alter protein
function via single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Recently, Hyena, a large
language model based on implicit convolutions was shown to match attention in
quality while allowing longer context lengths and lower time complexity.
Leveraging Hyenas new long-range capabilities, we present HyenaDNA, a genomic
foundation model pretrained on the human reference genome with context lengths
of up to 1 million tokens at the single nucleotide-level, an up to 500x
increase over previous dense attention-based models. HyenaDNA scales
sub-quadratically in sequence length (training up to 160x faster than
Transformer), uses single nucleotide tokens, and has full global context at
each layer. We explore what longer context enables - including the first use of
in-context learning in genomics for simple adaptation to novel tasks without
updating pretrained model weights. On fine-tuned benchmarks from the Nucleotide
Transformer, HyenaDNA reaches state-of-the-art (SotA) on 12 of 17 datasets
using a model with orders of magnitude less parameters and pretraining data. On
the GenomicBenchmarks, HyenaDNA surpasses SotA on all 8 datasets on average by
+9 accuracy points.

---

## 4. [LLaVAR: Enhanced Visual Instruction Tuning for Text-Rich Image
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.17107)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.17107](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17107)

**Authors**: Yanzhe Zhang, Ruiyi Zhang, Jiuxiang Gu, Yufan Zhou, Nedim Lipka, Diyi Yang, Tong Sun

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SALT-NLP/LLaVAR)

### Abstract

Instruction tuning unlocks the superior capability of Large Language Models
(LLM) to interact with humans. Furthermore, recent instruction-following
datasets include images as visual inputs, collecting responses for image-based
instructions. However, visual instruction-tuned models cannot comprehend
textual details within images well. This work enhances the current visual
instruction tuning pipeline with text-rich images (e.g., movie posters, book
covers, etc.). Specifically, we first use publicly available OCR tools to
collect results on 422K text-rich images from the LAION dataset. Moreover, we
prompt text-only GPT-4 with recognized texts and image captions to generate 16K
conversations, each containing question-answer pairs for text-rich images. By
combining our collected data with previous multi-modal instruction-following
data, our model, LLaVAR, substantially improves the LLaVA model's capability on
text-based VQA datasets (up to 20% accuracy improvement) while achieving an
accuracy of 91.42% on ScienceQA. The GPT-4-based instruction-following
evaluation also demonstrates the improvement of our model on both natural
images and text-rich images. Through qualitative analysis, LLaVAR shows
promising interaction (e.g., reasoning, writing, and elaboration) skills with
humans based on the latest real-world online content that combines text and
images. We make our code/data/models publicly available at
https://llavar.github.io/.

---

## 5. [Towards Measuring the Representation of Subjective Global Opinions in
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16388)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16388](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16388)

**Authors**: Esin Durmus, Karina Nyugen, Thomas I. Liao, Nicholas Schiefer, Amanda Askell, Anton Bakhtin, Carol Chen, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Danny Hernandez, Nicholas Joseph, Liane Lovitt, Sam McCandlish, Orowa Sikder, Alex Tamkin, Janel Thamkul, Jared Kaplan, Jack Clark, Deep Ganguli

**Published**: 2023-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/salt-nlp/culturebank)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) may not equitably represent diverse global
perspectives on societal issues. In this paper, we develop a quantitative
framework to evaluate whose opinions model-generated responses are more similar
to. We first build a dataset, GlobalOpinionQA, comprised of questions and
answers from cross-national surveys designed to capture diverse opinions on
global issues across different countries. Next, we define a metric that
quantifies the similarity between LLM-generated survey responses and human
responses, conditioned on country. With our framework, we run three experiments
on an LLM trained to be helpful, honest, and harmless with Constitutional AI.
By default, LLM responses tend to be more similar to the opinions of certain
populations, such as those from the USA, and some European and South American
countries, highlighting the potential for biases. When we prompt the model to
consider a particular country's perspective, responses shift to be more similar
to the opinions of the prompted populations, but can reflect harmful cultural
stereotypes. When we translate GlobalOpinionQA questions to a target language,
the model's responses do not necessarily become the most similar to the
opinions of speakers of those languages. We release our dataset for others to
use and build on. Our data is at
https://huggingface.co/datasets/Anthropic/llm_global_opinions. We also provide
an interactive visualization at https://llmglobalvalues.anthropic.com.

---

## 6. [SVNR: Spatially-variant Noise Removal with Denoising Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16052)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16052](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16052)

**Authors**: Naama Pearl, Yaron Brodsky, Dana Berman, Assaf Zomet, Alex Rav Acha, Daniel Cohen-Or, Dani Lischinski

**Published**: 2023-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Denoising diffusion models have recently shown impressive results in
generative tasks. By learning powerful priors from huge collections of training
images, such models are able to gradually modify complete noise to a clean
natural image via a sequence of small denoising steps, seemingly making them
well-suited for single image denoising. However, effectively applying denoising
diffusion models to removal of realistic noise is more challenging than it may
seem, since their formulation is based on additive white Gaussian noise, unlike
noise in real-world images. In this work, we present SVNR, a novel formulation
of denoising diffusion that assumes a more realistic, spatially-variant noise
model. SVNR enables using the noisy input image as the starting point for the
denoising diffusion process, in addition to conditioning the process on it. To
this end, we adapt the diffusion process to allow each pixel to have its own
time embedding, and propose training and inference schemes that support
spatially-varying time maps. Our formulation also accounts for the correlation
that exists between the condition image and the samples along the modified
diffusion process. In our experiments we demonstrate the advantages of our
approach over a strong diffusion model baseline, as well as over a
state-of-the-art single image denoising method.

---

## 7. [REFLECT: Summarizing Robot Experiences for Failure Explanation and
  Correction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.15724)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.15724](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.15724)

**Authors**: Zeyi Liu, Arpit Bahety, Shuran Song

**Published**: 2023-06-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/real-stanford/reflect)

### Abstract

The ability to detect and analyze failed executions automatically is crucial
for an explainable and robust robotic system. Recently, Large Language Models
(LLMs) have demonstrated strong common sense reasoning skills on textual
inputs. To leverage the power of LLM for robot failure explanation, we propose
a framework REFLECT, which converts multi-sensory data into a hierarchical
summary of robot past experiences and queries LLM with a progressive failure
explanation algorithm. Conditioned on the explanation, a failure correction
planner generates an executable plan for the robot to correct the failure and
complete the task. To systematically evaluate the framework, we create the
RoboFail dataset and show that our LLM-based framework is able to generate
informative failure explanations that assist successful correction planning.
Project website: https://roboreflect.github.io/

---

## 8. [Automatic Calibration and Error Correction for Large Language Models via
  Pareto Optimal Self-Supervision](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16564)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16564](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16564)

**Authors**: Theodore Zhao, Mu Wei, J. Samuel Preston, Hoifung Poon

**Published**: 2023-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities out of
box for a wide range of applications, yet accuracy still remains a major growth
area, especially in mission-critical domains such as biomedicine. An effective
method to calibrate the confidence level on LLM responses is essential to
automatically detect errors and facilitate human-in-the-loop verification. An
important source of calibration signals stems from expert-stipulated
programmatic supervision, which is often available at low cost but has its own
limitations such as noise and coverage. In this paper, we introduce a Pareto
optimal self-supervision framework that can leverage available programmatic
supervision to systematically calibrate LLM responses by producing a risk score
for every response, without any additional manual efforts. This is accomplished
by learning a harmonizer model to align LLM output with other available
supervision sources, which would assign higher risk scores to more uncertain
LLM responses and facilitate error correction. Experiments on standard relation
extraction tasks in biomedical and general domains demonstrate the promise of
this approach, with our proposed risk scores highly correlated with the real
error rate of LLMs. For the most uncertain test instances, dynamic prompting
based on our proposed risk scores results in significant accuracy improvement
for off-the-shelf LLMs, boosting GPT-3 results past state-of-the-art (SOTA)
weak supervision and GPT-4 results past SOTA supervised results on challenging
evaluation datasets.

---

## 9. [Accelerating Transducers through Adjacent Token Merging](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16009)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16009](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16009)

**Authors**: Yuang Li, Yu Wu, Jinyu Li, Shujie Liu

**Published**: 2023-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Recent end-to-end automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems often utilize a
Transformer-based acoustic encoder that generates embedding at a high frame
rate. However, this design is inefficient, particularly for long speech signals
due to the quadratic computation of self-attention. To address this, we propose
a new method, Adjacent Token Merging (A-ToMe), which gradually combines
adjacent tokens with high similarity scores between their key values. In this
way, the total time step could be reduced, and the inference of both the
encoder and joint network is accelerated. Experiments on LibriSpeech show that
our method can reduce 57% of tokens and improve the inference speed on GPU by
70% without any notable loss of accuracy. Additionally, we demonstrate that
A-ToMe is also an effective solution to reduce tokens in long-form ASR, where
the input speech consists of multiple utterances.

---
