# Daily Papers - 2023-06-07

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-06-07)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [Recognize Anything: A Strong Image Tagging Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03514)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03514](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03514)

**Authors**: Youcai Zhang, Xinyu Huang, Jinyu Ma, Zhaoyang Li, Zhaochuan Luo, Yanchun Xie, Yuzhuo Qin, Tong Luo, Yaqian Li, Shilong Liu, Yandong Guo, Lei Zhang

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xinyu1205/Recognize_Anything-Tag2Text)

### Abstract

We present the Recognize Anything Model (RAM): a strong foundation model for
image tagging. RAM can recognize any common category with high accuracy. RAM
introduces a new paradigm for image tagging, leveraging large-scale image-text
pairs for training instead of manual annotations. The development of RAM
comprises four key steps. Firstly, annotation-free image tags are obtained at
scale through automatic text semantic parsing. Subsequently, a preliminary
model is trained for automatic annotation by unifying the caption and tagging
tasks, supervised by the original texts and parsed tags, respectively. Thirdly,
a data engine is employed to generate additional annotations and clean
incorrect ones. Lastly, the model is retrained with the processed data and
fine-tuned using a smaller but higher-quality dataset. We evaluate the tagging
capabilities of RAM on numerous benchmarks and observe impressive zero-shot
performance, significantly outperforming CLIP and BLIP. Remarkably, RAM even
surpasses the fully supervised manners and exhibits competitive performance
with the Google API. We are releasing the RAM at
https://recognize-anything.github.io/ to foster the advancements of large
models in computer vision.

---

## 2. [M^3IT: A Large-Scale Dataset towards Multi-Modal Multilingual
  Instruction Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.04387)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.04387](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.04387)

**Authors**: Lei Li, Yuwei Yin, Shicheng Li, Liang Chen, Peiyi Wang, Shuhuai Ren, Mukai Li, Yazheng Yang, Jingjing Xu, Xu Sun, Lingpeng Kong, Qi Liu

**Published**: 2023-06-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Instruction tuning has significantly advanced large language models (LLMs)
such as ChatGPT, enabling them to align with human instructions across diverse
tasks. However, progress in open vision-language models (VLMs) has been limited
due to the scarcity of high-quality instruction datasets. To tackle this
challenge and promote research in the vision-language field, we introduce the
Multi-Modal, Multilingual Instruction Tuning (M^3IT) dataset, designed to
optimize VLM alignment with human instructions. Our M^3IT dataset comprises
40 carefully curated datasets, including 2.4 million instances and 400 manually
written task instructions, reformatted into a vision-to-text structure. Key
tasks are translated into 80 languages with an advanced translation system,
ensuring broader accessibility. M^3IT surpasses previous datasets regarding
task coverage, instruction number and instance scale. Moreover, we develop
Ying-VLM, a VLM model trained on our M^3IT dataset, showcasing its potential
to answer complex questions requiring world knowledge, generalize to unseen
video tasks, and comprehend unseen instructions in Chinese. To encourage
further research, we have open-sourced both the dataset and trained models.

---

## 3. [Ada-TTA: Towards Adaptive High-Quality Text-to-Talking Avatar Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03504)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03504](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03504)

**Authors**: Zhenhui Ye, Ziyue Jiang, Yi Ren, Jinglin Liu, Chen Zhang, Xiang Yin, Zejun Ma, Zhou Zhao

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

We are interested in a novel task, namely low-resource text-to-talking
avatar. Given only a few-minute-long talking person video with the audio track
as the training data and arbitrary texts as the driving input, we aim to
synthesize high-quality talking portrait videos corresponding to the input
text. This task has broad application prospects in the digital human industry
but has not been technically achieved yet due to two challenges: (1) It is
challenging to mimic the timbre from out-of-domain audio for a traditional
multi-speaker Text-to-Speech system. (2) It is hard to render high-fidelity and
lip-synchronized talking avatars with limited training data. In this paper, we
introduce Adaptive Text-to-Talking Avatar (Ada-TTA), which (1) designs a
generic zero-shot multi-speaker TTS model that well disentangles the text
content, timbre, and prosody; and (2) embraces recent advances in neural
rendering to achieve realistic audio-driven talking face video generation. With
these designs, our method overcomes the aforementioned two challenges and
achieves to generate identity-preserving speech and realistic talking person
video. Experiments demonstrate that our method could synthesize realistic,
identity-preserving, and audio-visual synchronized talking avatar videos.

---

## 4. [Emergent Correspondence from Image Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03881)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03881](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03881)

**Authors**: Luming Tang, Menglin Jia, Qianqian Wang, Cheng Perng Phoo, Bharath Hariharan

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Tsingularity/dift)

### Abstract

Finding correspondences between images is a fundamental problem in computer
vision. In this paper, we show that correspondence emerges in image diffusion
models without any explicit supervision. We propose a simple strategy to
extract this implicit knowledge out of diffusion networks as image features,
namely DIffusion FeaTures (DIFT), and use them to establish correspondences
between real images. Without any additional fine-tuning or supervision on the
task-specific data or annotations, DIFT is able to outperform both
weakly-supervised methods and competitive off-the-shelf features in identifying
semantic, geometric, and temporal correspondences. Particularly for semantic
correspondence, DIFT from Stable Diffusion is able to outperform DINO and
OpenCLIP by 19 and 14 accuracy points respectively on the challenging SPair-71k
benchmark. It even outperforms the state-of-the-art supervised methods on 9 out
of 18 categories while remaining on par for the overall performance. Project
page: https://diffusionfeatures.github.io

---

## 5. [Certified Reasoning with Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.04031)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.04031](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.04031)

**Authors**: Gabriel Poesia, Kanishk Gandhi, Eric Zelikman, Noah D. Goodman

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gpoesia/certified-reasoning)

### Abstract

Language models often achieve higher accuracy when reasoning step-by-step in
complex tasks. However, their reasoning can be unsound, inconsistent, or rely
on undesirable prior assumptions. To tackle these issues, we introduce a class
of tools for language models called guides that use state and incremental
constraints to guide generation. A guide can be invoked by the model to
constrain its own generation to a set of valid statements given by the tool. In
turn, the model's choices can change the guide's state. We show how a general
system for logical reasoning can be used as a guide, which we call LogicGuide.
Given a reasoning problem in natural language, a model can formalize its
assumptions for LogicGuide and then guarantee that its reasoning steps are
sound. In experiments with the PrOntoQA and ProofWriter reasoning datasets,
LogicGuide significantly improves the performance of GPT-3, GPT-3.5 Turbo and
LLaMA (accuracy gains up to 35%). LogicGuide also drastically reduces content
effects: the interference of prior and current assumptions that both humans and
language models have been shown to suffer from. Finally, we explore
bootstrapping LLaMA 13B from its own reasoning and find that LogicGuide is
critical: by training only on certified self-generated reasoning, LLaMA can
self-improve, avoiding learning from its own hallucinations.

---

## 6. [Increasing Diversity While Maintaining Accuracy: Text Data Generation
  with Large Language Models and Human Interventions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.04140)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.04140](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.04140)

**Authors**: John Joon Young Chung, Ece Kamar, Saleema Amershi

**Published**: 2023-06-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) can be used to generate text data for training
and evaluating other models. However, creating high-quality datasets with LLMs
can be challenging. In this work, we explore human-AI partnerships to
facilitate high diversity and accuracy in LLM-based text data generation. We
first examine two approaches to diversify text generation: 1) logit
suppression, which minimizes the generation of languages that have already been
frequently generated, and 2) temperature sampling, which flattens the token
sampling probability. We found that diversification approaches can increase
data diversity but often at the cost of data accuracy (i.e., text and labels
being appropriate for the target domain). To address this issue, we examined
two human interventions, 1) label replacement (LR), correcting misaligned
labels, and 2) out-of-scope filtering (OOSF), removing instances that are out
of the user's domain of interest or to which no considered label applies. With
oracle studies, we found that LR increases the absolute accuracy of models
trained with diversified datasets by 14.4%. Moreover, we found that some models
trained with data generated with LR interventions outperformed LLM-based
few-shot classification. In contrast, OOSF was not effective in increasing
model accuracy, implying the need for future work in human-in-the-loop text
data generation.

---

## 7. [Text-only Domain Adaptation using Unified Speech-Text Representation in
  Transducer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.04076)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.04076](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.04076)

**Authors**: Lu Huang, Boyu Li, Jun Zhang, Lu Lu, Zejun Ma

**Published**: 2023-06-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Domain adaptation using text-only corpus is challenging in end-to-end(E2E)
speech recognition. Adaptation by synthesizing audio from text through TTS is
resource-consuming. We present a method to learn Unified Speech-Text
Representation in Conformer Transducer(USTR-CT) to enable fast domain
adaptation using the text-only corpus. Different from the previous textogram
method, an extra text encoder is introduced in our work to learn text
representation and is removed during inference, so there is no modification for
online deployment. To improve the efficiency of adaptation, single-step and
multi-step adaptations are also explored. The experiments on adapting
LibriSpeech to SPGISpeech show the proposed method reduces the word error
rate(WER) by relatively 44% on the target domain, which is better than those of
TTS method and textogram method. Also, it is shown the proposed method can be
combined with internal language model estimation(ILME) to further improve the
performance.

---

## 8. [Triggering Multi-Hop Reasoning for Question Answering in Language Models
  using Soft Prompts and Random Walks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.04009)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.04009](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.04009)

**Authors**: Kanishka Misra, Cicero Nogueira dos Santos, Siamak Shakeri

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

Despite readily memorizing world knowledge about entities, pre-trained
language models (LMs) struggle to compose together two or more facts to perform
multi-hop reasoning in question-answering tasks. In this work, we propose
techniques that improve upon this limitation by relying on random walks over
structured knowledge graphs. Specifically, we use soft prompts to guide LMs to
chain together their encoded knowledge by learning to map multi-hop questions
to random walk paths that lead to the answer. Applying our methods on two T5
LMs shows substantial improvements over standard tuning approaches in answering
questions that require 2-hop reasoning.

---

## 9. [Learning to Ground Instructional Articles in Videos through Narrations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.03802)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.03802](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03802)

**Authors**: Effrosyni Mavroudi, Triantafyllos Afouras, Lorenzo Torresani

**Published**: 2023-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 1

### Abstract

In this paper we present an approach for localizing steps of procedural
activities in narrated how-to videos. To deal with the scarcity of labeled data
at scale, we source the step descriptions from a language knowledge base
(wikiHow) containing instructional articles for a large variety of procedural
tasks. Without any form of manual supervision, our model learns to temporally
ground the steps of procedural articles in how-to videos by matching three
modalities: frames, narrations, and step descriptions. Specifically, our method
aligns steps to video by fusing information from two distinct pathways: i) {\em
direct} alignment of step descriptions to frames, ii) {\em indirect} alignment
obtained by composing steps-to-narrations with narrations-to-video
correspondences. Notably, our approach performs global temporal grounding of
all steps in an article at once by exploiting order information, and is trained
with step pseudo-labels which are iteratively refined and aggressively
filtered. In order to validate our model we introduce a new evaluation
benchmark -- HT-Step -- obtained by manually annotating a 124-hour subset of
HowTo100MA test server is accessible at
\url{https://eval.ai/web/challenges/challenge-page/2082.} with steps sourced
from wikiHow articles. Experiments on this benchmark as well as zero-shot
evaluations on CrossTask demonstrate that our multi-modality alignment yields
dramatic gains over several baselines and prior works. Finally, we show that
our inner module for matching narration-to-video outperforms by a large margin
the state of the art on the HTM-Align narration-video alignment benchmark.

---
