# Daily Papers - 2023-06-30

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-06-30)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [OBELICS: An Open Web-Scale Filtered Dataset of Interleaved Image-Text
  Documents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16527)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16527](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16527)

**Authors**: Hugo Laurençon, Lucile Saulnier, Léo Tronchon, Stas Bekman, Amanpreet Singh, Anton Lozhkov, Thomas Wang, Siddharth Karamcheti, Alexander M. Rush, Douwe Kiela, Matthieu Cord, Victor Sanh

**Published**: 2023-06-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 47

### Abstract

Large multimodal models trained on natural documents, which interleave images
and text, outperform models trained on image-text pairs on various multimodal
benchmarks. However, the datasets used to train these models have not been
released, and the collection process has not been fully specified. We introduce
the OBELICS dataset, an open web-scale filtered dataset of interleaved
image-text documents comprising 141 million web pages extracted from Common
Crawl, 353 million associated images, and 115 billion text tokens. We describe
the dataset creation process, present comprehensive filtering rules, and
provide an analysis of the dataset's content. To show the viability of OBELICS,
we train vision and language models of 9 and 80 billion parameters named
IDEFICS, and obtain competitive performance on different multimodal benchmarks.
We release our dataset, models and code.

---

## 2. [One-2-3-45: Any Single Image to 3D Mesh in 45 Seconds without Per-Shape
  Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16928)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16928](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16928)

**Authors**: Minghua Liu, Chao Xu, Haian Jin, Linghao Chen, Mukund Varma T, Zexiang Xu, Hao Su

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 41

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/One-2-3-45/One-2-3-45)

### Abstract

Single image 3D reconstruction is an important but challenging task that
requires extensive knowledge of our natural world. Many existing methods solve
this problem by optimizing a neural radiance field under the guidance of 2D
diffusion models but suffer from lengthy optimization time, 3D inconsistency
results, and poor geometry. In this work, we propose a novel method that takes
a single image of any object as input and generates a full 360-degree 3D
textured mesh in a single feed-forward pass. Given a single image, we first use
a view-conditioned 2D diffusion model, Zero123, to generate multi-view images
for the input view, and then aim to lift them up to 3D space. Since traditional
reconstruction methods struggle with inconsistent multi-view predictions, we
build our 3D reconstruction module upon an SDF-based generalizable neural
surface reconstruction method and propose several critical training strategies
to enable the reconstruction of 360-degree meshes. Without costly
optimizations, our method reconstructs 3D shapes in significantly less time
than existing methods. Moreover, our method favors better geometry, generates
more 3D consistent results, and adheres more closely to the input image. We
evaluate our approach on both synthetic data and in-the-wild images and
demonstrate its superiority in terms of both mesh quality and runtime. In
addition, our approach can seamlessly support the text-to-3D task by
integrating with off-the-shelf text-to-image diffusion models.

---

## 3. [DreamDiffusion: Generating High-Quality Images from Brain EEG Signals](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16934)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16934](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16934)

**Authors**: Yunpeng Bai, Xintao Wang, Yanpei Cao, Yixiao Ge, Chun Yuan, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bbaaii/DreamDiffusion)

### Abstract

This paper introduces DreamDiffusion, a novel method for generating
high-quality images directly from brain electroencephalogram (EEG) signals,
without the need to translate thoughts into text. DreamDiffusion leverages
pre-trained text-to-image models and employs temporal masked signal modeling to
pre-train the EEG encoder for effective and robust EEG representations.
Additionally, the method further leverages the CLIP image encoder to provide
extra supervision to better align EEG, text, and image embeddings with limited
EEG-image pairs. Overall, the proposed method overcomes the challenges of using
EEG signals for image generation, such as noise, limited information, and
individual differences, and achieves promising results. Quantitative and
qualitative results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method as a
significant step towards portable and low-cost ``thoughts-to-image'', with
potential applications in neuroscience and computer vision.

---

## 4. [Generate Anything Anywhere in Any Scene](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.17154)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.17154](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17154)

**Authors**: Yuheng Li, Haotian Liu, Yangming Wen, Yong Jae Lee

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Text-to-image diffusion models have attracted considerable interest due to
their wide applicability across diverse fields. However, challenges persist in
creating controllable models for personalized object generation. In this paper,
we first identify the entanglement issues in existing personalized generative
models, and then propose a straightforward and efficient data augmentation
training strategy that guides the diffusion model to focus solely on object
identity. By inserting the plug-and-play adapter layers from a pre-trained
controllable diffusion model, our model obtains the ability to control the
location and size of each generated personalized object. During inference, we
propose a regionally-guided sampling technique to maintain the quality and
fidelity of the generated images. Our method achieves comparable or superior
fidelity for personalized objects, yielding a robust, versatile, and
controllable text-to-image diffusion model that is capable of generating
realistic and personalized images. Our approach demonstrates significant
potential for various applications, such as those in art, entertainment, and
advertising design.

---

## 5. [Michelangelo: Conditional 3D Shape Generation based on Shape-Image-Text
  Aligned Latent Representation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.17115)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.17115](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17115)

**Authors**: Zibo Zhao, Wen Liu, Xin Chen, Xianfang Zeng, Rui Wang, Pei Cheng, Bin Fu, Tao Chen, Gang Yu, Shenghua Gao

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/neuralcarver/michelangelo)

### Abstract

We present a novel alignment-before-generation approach to tackle the
challenging task of generating general 3D shapes based on 2D images or texts.
Directly learning a conditional generative model from images or texts to 3D
shapes is prone to producing inconsistent results with the conditions because
3D shapes have an additional dimension whose distribution significantly differs
from that of 2D images and texts. To bridge the domain gap among the three
modalities and facilitate multi-modal-conditioned 3D shape generation, we
explore representing 3D shapes in a shape-image-text-aligned space. Our
framework comprises two models: a Shape-Image-Text-Aligned Variational
Auto-Encoder (SITA-VAE) and a conditional Aligned Shape Latent Diffusion Model
(ASLDM). The former model encodes the 3D shapes into the shape latent space
aligned to the image and text and reconstructs the fine-grained 3D neural
fields corresponding to given shape embeddings via the transformer-based
decoder. The latter model learns a probabilistic mapping function from the
image or text space to the latent shape space. Our extensive experiments
demonstrate that our proposed approach can generate higher-quality and more
diverse 3D shapes that better semantically conform to the visual or textural
conditional inputs, validating the effectiveness of the
shape-image-text-aligned space for cross-modality 3D shape generation.

---

## 6. [Benchmarking Large Language Model Capabilities for Conditional
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16793)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16793](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16793)

**Authors**: Joshua Maynez, Priyanka Agrawal, Sebastian Gehrmann

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Pre-trained large language models (PLMs) underlie most new developments in
natural language processing. They have shifted the field from
application-specific model pipelines to a single model that is adapted to a
wide range of tasks. Autoregressive PLMs like GPT-3 or PaLM, alongside
techniques like few-shot learning, have additionally shifted the output
modality to generation instead of classification or regression. Despite their
ubiquitous use, the generation quality of language models is rarely evaluated
when these models are introduced. Additionally, it is unclear how existing
generation tasks--while they can be used to compare systems at a high
level--relate to the real world use cases for which people have been adopting
them. In this work, we discuss how to adapt existing application-specific
generation benchmarks to PLMs and provide an in-depth, empirical study of the
limitations and capabilities of PLMs in natural language generation tasks along
dimensions such as scale, architecture, input and output language. Our results
show that PLMs differ in their applicability to different data regimes and
their generalization to multiple languages and inform which PLMs to use for a
given generation task setup. We share best practices to be taken into
consideration when benchmarking generation capabilities during the development
of upcoming PLMs.

---

## 7. [BEDLAM: A Synthetic Dataset of Bodies Exhibiting Detailed Lifelike
  Animated Motion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16940)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16940](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16940)

**Organization**: Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems

**Authors**: Michael J. Black, Priyanka Patel, Joachim Tesch, Jinlong Yang

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pixelite1201/BEDLAM) | [Project Page](https://bedlam.is.tuebingen.mpg.de/)

### Abstract

We show, for the first time, that neural networks trained only on synthetic
data achieve state-of-the-art accuracy on the problem of 3D human pose and
shape (HPS) estimation from real images. Previous synthetic datasets have been
small, unrealistic, or lacked realistic clothing. Achieving sufficient realism
is non-trivial and we show how to do this for full bodies in motion.
Specifically, our BEDLAM dataset contains monocular RGB videos with
ground-truth 3D bodies in SMPL-X format. It includes a diversity of body
shapes, motions, skin tones, hair, and clothing. The clothing is realistically
simulated on the moving bodies using commercial clothing physics simulation. We
render varying numbers of people in realistic scenes with varied lighting and
camera motions. We then train various HPS regressors using BEDLAM and achieve
state-of-the-art accuracy on real-image benchmarks despite training with
synthetic data. We use BEDLAM to gain insights into what model design choices
are important for accuracy. With good synthetic training data, we find that a
basic method like HMR approaches the accuracy of the current SOTA method
(CLIFF). BEDLAM is useful for a variety of tasks and all images, ground truth
bodies, 3D clothing, support code, and more are available for research
purposes. Additionally, we provide detailed information about our synthetic
data generation pipeline, enabling others to generate their own datasets. See
the project page: https://bedlam.is.tue.mpg.de/.

---

## 8. [Dynamic-Resolution Model Learning for Object Pile Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16700)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16700](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16700)

**Authors**: Yixuan Wang, Yunzhu Li, Katherine Driggs-Campbell, Li Fei-Fei, Jiajun Wu

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Dynamics models learned from visual observations have shown to be effective
in various robotic manipulation tasks. One of the key questions for learning
such dynamics models is what scene representation to use. Prior works typically
assume representation at a fixed dimension or resolution, which may be
inefficient for simple tasks and ineffective for more complicated tasks. In
this work, we investigate how to learn dynamic and adaptive representations at
different levels of abstraction to achieve the optimal trade-off between
efficiency and effectiveness. Specifically, we construct dynamic-resolution
particle representations of the environment and learn a unified dynamics model
using graph neural networks (GNNs) that allows continuous selection of the
abstraction level. During test time, the agent can adaptively determine the
optimal resolution at each model-predictive control (MPC) step. We evaluate our
method in object pile manipulation, a task we commonly encounter in cooking,
agriculture, manufacturing, and pharmaceutical applications. Through
comprehensive evaluations both in the simulation and the real world, we show
that our method achieves significantly better performance than state-of-the-art
fixed-resolution baselines at the gathering, sorting, and redistribution of
granular object piles made with various instances like coffee beans, almonds,
corn, etc.

---

## 9. [NeuralFuse: Learning to Improve the Accuracy of Access-Limited Neural
  Network Inference in Low-Voltage Regimes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16869)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16869](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16869)

**Authors**: Hao-Lun Sun, Lei Hsiung, Nandhini Chandramoorthy, Pin-Yu Chen, Tsung-Yi Ho

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ibm/neuralfuse) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/spaces/TrustSafeAI/NeuralFuse)

### Abstract

Deep neural networks (DNNs) have become ubiquitous in machine learning, but
their energy consumption remains a notable issue. Lowering the supply voltage
is an effective strategy for reducing energy consumption. However, aggressively
scaling down the supply voltage can lead to accuracy degradation due to random
bit flips in static random access memory (SRAM) where model parameters are
stored. To address this challenge, we introduce NeuralFuse, a novel add-on
module that addresses the accuracy-energy tradeoff in low-voltage regimes by
learning input transformations to generate error-resistant data
representations. NeuralFuse protects DNN accuracy in both nominal and
low-voltage scenarios. Moreover, NeuralFuse is easy to implement and can be
readily applied to DNNs with limited access, such as non-configurable hardware
or remote access to cloud-based APIs. Experimental results demonstrate that, at
a 1% bit error rate, NeuralFuse can reduce SRAM memory access energy by up to
24% while improving accuracy by up to 57%. To the best of our knowledge, this
is the first model-agnostic approach (i.e., no model retraining) to address
low-voltage-induced bit errors. The source code is available at
https://github.com/IBM/NeuralFuse.

---

## 10. [ArrayBot: Reinforcement Learning for Generalizable Distributed
  Manipulation through Touch](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16857)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16857](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16857)

**Authors**: Zhengrong Xue, Han Zhang, Jingwen Cheng, Zhengmao He, Yuanchen Ju, Changyi Lin, Gu Zhang, Huazhe Xu

**Published**: 2023-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

We present ArrayBot, a distributed manipulation system consisting of a 16
times 16 array of vertically sliding pillars integrated with tactile sensors,
which can simultaneously support, perceive, and manipulate the tabletop
objects. Towards generalizable distributed manipulation, we leverage
reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms for the automatic discovery of control
policies. In the face of the massively redundant actions, we propose to reshape
the action space by considering the spatially local action patch and the
low-frequency actions in the frequency domain. With this reshaped action space,
we train RL agents that can relocate diverse objects through tactile
observations only. Surprisingly, we find that the discovered policy can not
only generalize to unseen object shapes in the simulator but also transfer to
the physical robot without any domain randomization. Leveraging the deployed
policy, we present abundant real-world manipulation tasks, illustrating the
vast potential of RL on ArrayBot for distributed manipulation.

---

## 11. [An Efficient Sparse Inference Software Accelerator for Transformer-based
  Language Models on CPUs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.16601)

**ArXiv ID**: [2306.16601](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16601)

**Authors**: Haihao Shen, Hengyu Meng, Bo Dong, Zhe Wang, Ofir Zafrir, Yi Ding, Yu Luo, Hanwen Chang, Qun Gao, Ziheng Wang, Guy Boudoukh, Moshe Wasserblat

**Published**: 2023-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-06-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/intel/intel-extension-for-transformers)

### Abstract

In recent years, Transformer-based language models have become the standard
approach for natural language processing tasks. However, stringent throughput
and latency requirements in industrial applications are limiting their
adoption. To mitigate the gap, model compression techniques such as structured
pruning are being used to improve inference efficiency. However, most existing
neural network inference runtimes lack adequate support for structured
sparsity. In this paper, we propose an efficient sparse deep learning inference
software stack for Transformer-based language models where the weights are
pruned with constant block size. Our sparse software accelerator leverages
Intel Deep Learning Boost to maximize the performance of sparse matrix - dense
matrix multiplication (commonly abbreviated as SpMM) on CPUs. Our SpMM kernel
outperforms the existing sparse libraries (oneMKL, TVM, and LIBXSMM) by an
order of magnitude on a wide range of GEMM shapes under 5 representative
sparsity ratios (70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%). Moreover, our SpMM kernel shows up
to 5x speedup over dense GEMM kernel of oneDNN, a well-optimized dense library
widely used in industry. We apply our sparse accelerator on widely-used
Transformer-based language models including Bert-Mini, DistilBERT, Bert-Base,
and BERT-Large. Our sparse inference software shows up to 1.5x speedup over
Neural Magic's Deepsparse under same configurations on Xeon on Amazon Web
Services under proxy production latency constraints. We also compare our
solution with two framework-based inference solutions, ONNX Runtime and
PyTorch, and demonstrate up to 37x speedup over ONNX Runtime and 345x over
PyTorch on Xeon under the latency constraints. All the source code is publicly
available on Github: https://github.com/intel/intel-extension-for-transformers.

---
