# Daily Papers - 2024-12-09

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-12-09)

Total papers: 16

---

## 1. [Expanding Performance Boundaries of Open-Source Multimodal Models with
  Model, Data, and Test-Time Scaling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.05271)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.05271](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05271)

**Authors**: Zhe Chen, Weiyun Wang, Yue Cao, Yangzhou Liu, Zhangwei Gao, Erfei Cui, Jinguo Zhu, Shenglong Ye, Hao Tian, Zhaoyang Liu, Lixin Gu, Xuehui Wang, Qingyun Li, Yimin Ren, Zixuan Chen, Jiapeng Luo, Jiahao Wang, Tan Jiang, Bo Wang, Conghui He, Botian Shi, Xingcheng Zhang, Han Lv, Yi Wang, Wenqi Shao, Pei Chu, Zhongying Tu, Tong He, Zhiyong Wu, Huipeng Deng, Jiaye Ge, Kai Chen, Min Dou, Lewei Lu, Xizhou Zhu, Tong Lu, Dahua Lin, Yu Qiao, Jifeng Dai, Wenhai Wang

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Zhe Chen

**Upvotes**: 160

### Abstract

We introduce InternVL 2.5, an advanced multimodal large language model (MLLM)
series that builds upon InternVL 2.0, maintaining its core model architecture
while introducing significant enhancements in training and testing strategies
as well as data quality. In this work, we delve into the relationship between
model scaling and performance, systematically exploring the performance trends
in vision encoders, language models, dataset sizes, and test-time
configurations. Through extensive evaluations on a wide range of benchmarks,
including multi-discipline reasoning, document understanding, multi-image /
video understanding, real-world comprehension, multimodal hallucination
detection, visual grounding, multilingual capabilities, and pure language
processing, InternVL 2.5 exhibits competitive performance, rivaling leading
commercial models such as GPT-4o and Claude-3.5-Sonnet. Notably, our model is
the first open-source MLLMs to surpass 70% on the MMMU benchmark, achieving a
3.7-point improvement through Chain-of-Thought (CoT) reasoning and showcasing
strong potential for test-time scaling. We hope this model contributes to the
open-source community by setting new standards for developing and applying
multimodal AI systems. HuggingFace demo see
https://huggingface.co/spaces/OpenGVLab/InternVL

---

## 2. [EXAONE 3.5: Series of Large Language Models for Real-world Use Cases](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04862)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04862](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04862)

**Organization**: LG AI Research

**Authors**: LG AI Research, Soyoung An, Kyunghoon Bae, Eunbi Choi, Kibong Choi, Stanley Jungkyu Choi, Seokhee Hong, Junwon Hwang, Hyojin Jeon, Gerrard Jeongwon Jo, Hyunjik Jo, Jiyeon Jung, Yountae Jung, Hyosang Kim, Joonkee Kim, Seonghwan Kim, Soyeon Kim, Sunkyoung Kim, Yireun Kim, Yongil Kim, Youchul Kim, Edward Hwayoung Lee, Haeju Lee, Honglak Lee, Jinsik Lee, Kyungmin Lee, Woohyung Lim, Sangha Park, Sooyoun Park, Yongmin Park, Sihoon Yang, Heuiyeen Yeen, Hyeongu Yun

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by taesiri

**Upvotes**: 50

### Abstract

This technical report introduces the EXAONE 3.5 instruction-tuned language
models, developed and released by LG AI Research. The EXAONE 3.5 language
models are offered in three configurations: 32B, 7.8B, and 2.4B. These models
feature several standout capabilities: 1) exceptional instruction following
capabilities in real-world scenarios, achieving the highest scores across seven
benchmarks, 2) outstanding long-context comprehension, attaining the top
performance in four benchmarks, and 3) competitive results compared to
state-of-the-art open models of similar sizes across nine general benchmarks.
The EXAONE 3.5 language models are open to anyone for research purposes and can
be downloaded from https://huggingface.co/LGAI-EXAONE. For commercial use,
please reach out to the official contact point of LG AI Research:
contact_us@lgresearch.ai.

---

## 3. [MAmmoTH-VL: Eliciting Multimodal Reasoning with Instruction Tuning at
  Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.05237)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.05237](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05237)

**Authors**: Jarvis Guo, Tuney Zheng, Yuelin Bai, Bo Li, Yubo Wang, King Zhu, Yizhi Li, Graham Neubig, Wenhu Chen, Xiang Yue

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Xiang Yue

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mammoth-vl/mammoth-vl)

### Abstract

Open-source multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have shown significant
potential in a broad range of multimodal tasks. However, their reasoning
capabilities remain constrained by existing instruction-tuning datasets, which
were predominately repurposed from academic datasets such as VQA, AI2D, and
ChartQA. These datasets target simplistic tasks, and only provide phrase-level
answers without any intermediate rationales. To address these challenges, we
introduce a scalable and cost-effective method to construct a large-scale
multimodal instruction-tuning dataset with rich intermediate rationales
designed to elicit CoT reasoning. Using only open models, we create a dataset
containing 12M instruction-response pairs to cover diverse, reasoning-intensive
tasks with detailed and faithful rationales. Experiments demonstrate that
training MLLMs on this dataset significantly improves reasoning capabilities,
achieving state-of-the-art performance on benchmarks such as MathVerse (+8.1%),
MMMU-Pro (+7%), and MuirBench (+13.3%). Additionally, the model demonstrates
notable improvements of up to 4% on non-reasoning-based benchmarks. Ablation
studies further highlight the importance of key components, such as rewriting
and self-filtering, in the dataset construction process.

---

## 4. [LiFT: Leveraging Human Feedback for Text-to-Video Model Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04814)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04814](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04814)

**Authors**: Zhiyu Tan, Junyan Wang, Xiaomeng Yang, Cheng Jin, Hao Li

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by SII-Yibin Wang

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/CodeGoat24/LiFT) | [Project Page](https://codegoat24.github.io/LiFT)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in text-to-video (T2V) generative models have shown
impressive capabilities. However, these models are still inadequate in aligning
synthesized videos with human preferences (e.g., accurately reflecting text
descriptions), which is particularly difficult to address, as human preferences
are inherently subjective and challenging to formalize as objective functions.
Therefore, this paper proposes LiFT, a novel fine-tuning method leveraging
human feedback for T2V model alignment. Specifically, we first construct a
Human Rating Annotation dataset, LiFT-HRA, consisting of approximately 10k
human annotations, each including a score and its corresponding rationale.
Based on this, we train a reward model LiFT-Critic to learn reward function
effectively, which serves as a proxy for human judgment, measuring the
alignment between given videos and human expectations. Lastly, we leverage the
learned reward function to align the T2V model by maximizing the
reward-weighted likelihood. As a case study, we apply our pipeline to
CogVideoX-2B, showing that the fine-tuned model outperforms the CogVideoX-5B
across all 16 metrics, highlighting the potential of human feedback in
improving the alignment and quality of synthesized videos.

---

## 5. [SwiftEdit: Lightning Fast Text-Guided Image Editing via One-Step
  Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04301)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04301](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04301)

**Organization**: Qualcomm

**Authors**: Trong-Tung Nguyen, Quang Nguyen, Khoi Nguyen, Anh Tran, Cuong Pham

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Thuan Nguyen Hoang

**Upvotes**: 40

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Qualcomm-AI-research/SwiftEdit) | [Project Page](https://swift-edit.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent advances in text-guided image editing enable users to perform image
edits through simple text inputs, leveraging the extensive priors of multi-step
diffusion-based text-to-image models. However, these methods often fall short
of the speed demands required for real-world and on-device applications due to
the costly multi-step inversion and sampling process involved. In response to
this, we introduce SwiftEdit, a simple yet highly efficient editing tool that
achieve instant text-guided image editing (in 0.23s). The advancement of
SwiftEdit lies in its two novel contributions: a one-step inversion framework
that enables one-step image reconstruction via inversion and a mask-guided
editing technique with our proposed attention rescaling mechanism to perform
localized image editing. Extensive experiments are provided to demonstrate the
effectiveness and efficiency of SwiftEdit. In particular, SwiftEdit enables
instant text-guided image editing, which is extremely faster than previous
multi-step methods (at least 50 times faster) while maintain a competitive
performance in editing results. Our project page is at:
https://swift-edit.github.io/

---

## 6. [APOLLO: SGD-like Memory, AdamW-level Performance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.05270)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.05270](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05270)

**Authors**: Hanqing Zhu, Zhenyu Zhang, Wenyan Cong, Xi Liu, Sem Park, Vikas Chandra, Bo Long, David Z. Pan, Zhangyang Wang, Jinwon Lee

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Hanqing Zhu

**Upvotes**: 37

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zhuhanqing/APOLLO) | [Project Page](https://zhuhanqing.github.io/APOLLO/)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are notoriously memory-intensive during
training, particularly with the popular AdamW optimizer. This memory burden
necessitates using more or higher-end GPUs or reducing batch sizes, limiting
training scalability and throughput. To address this, various memory-efficient
optimizers have been proposed to reduce optimizer memory usage. However, they
face critical challenges: (i) reliance on costly SVD operations; (ii)
significant performance trade-offs compared to AdamW; and (iii) still
substantial optimizer memory overhead to maintain competitive performance.
  In this work, we identify that AdamW's learning rate adaptation rule can be
effectively coarsened as a structured learning rate update. Based on this
insight, we propose Approximated Gradient Scaling for Memory-Efficient LLM
Optimization (APOLLO), which approximates learning rate scaling using an
auxiliary low-rank optimizer state based on pure random projection. This
structured learning rate update rule makes APOLLO highly tolerant to further
memory reductions while delivering comparable pre-training performance. Even
its rank-1 variant, APOLLO-Mini, achieves superior pre-training performance
compared to AdamW with SGD-level memory costs.
  Extensive experiments demonstrate that the APOLLO series performs on-par with
or better than AdamW, while achieving greater memory savings by nearly
eliminating the optimization states of AdamW. These savings provide significant
system-level benefits: (1) Enhanced Throughput: 3x throughput on an 8xA100-80GB
setup compared to AdamW by supporting 4x larger batch sizes. (2) Improved Model
Scalability: Pre-training LLaMA-13B with naive DDP on A100-80GB GPUs without
system-level optimizations. (3) Low-End GPU Friendly Pre-training: Pre-training
LLaMA-7B on a single GPU using less than 12 GB of memory with weight
quantization.

---

## 7. [Moto: Latent Motion Token as the Bridging Language for Robot
  Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04445)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04445](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04445)

**Authors**: Yi Chen, Yuying Ge, Yizhuo Li, Yixiao Ge, Mingyu Ding, Ying Shan, Xihui Liu

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Yi Chen

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tencentarc/moto)

### Abstract

Recent developments in Large Language Models pre-trained on extensive corpora
have shown significant success in various natural language processing tasks
with minimal fine-tuning. This success offers new promise for robotics, which
has long been constrained by the high cost of action-labeled data. We ask:
given the abundant video data containing interaction-related knowledge
available as a rich "corpus", can a similar generative pre-training approach be
effectively applied to enhance robot learning? The key challenge is to identify
an effective representation for autoregressive pre-training that benefits robot
manipulation tasks. Inspired by the way humans learn new skills through
observing dynamic environments, we propose that effective robotic learning
should emphasize motion-related knowledge, which is closely tied to low-level
actions and is hardware-agnostic, facilitating the transfer of learned motions
to actual robot actions. To this end, we introduce Moto, which converts video
content into latent Motion Token sequences by a Latent Motion Tokenizer,
learning a bridging "language" of motion from videos in an unsupervised manner.
We pre-train Moto-GPT through motion token autoregression, enabling it to
capture diverse visual motion knowledge. After pre-training, Moto-GPT
demonstrates the promising ability to produce semantically interpretable motion
tokens, predict plausible motion trajectories, and assess trajectory
rationality through output likelihood. To transfer learned motion priors to
real robot actions, we implement a co-fine-tuning strategy that seamlessly
bridges latent motion token prediction and real robot control. Extensive
experiments show that the fine-tuned Moto-GPT exhibits superior robustness and
efficiency on robot manipulation benchmarks, underscoring its effectiveness in
transferring knowledge from video data to downstream visual manipulation tasks.

---

## 8. [GenMAC: Compositional Text-to-Video Generation with Multi-Agent
  Collaboration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04440)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04440](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04440)

**Authors**: Kaiyi Huang, Yukun Huang, Xuefei Ning, Zinan Lin, Yu Wang, Xihui Liu

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Nina

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Karine-Huang/GenMAC) | [Project Page](https://karine-h.github.io/GenMAC/)

### Abstract

Text-to-video generation models have shown significant progress in the recent
years. However, they still struggle with generating complex dynamic scenes
based on compositional text prompts, such as attribute binding for multiple
objects, temporal dynamics associated with different objects, and interactions
between objects. Our key motivation is that complex tasks can be decomposed
into simpler ones, each handled by a role-specialized MLLM agent. Multiple
agents can collaborate together to achieve collective intelligence for complex
goals. We propose GenMAC, an iterative, multi-agent framework that enables
compositional text-to-video generation. The collaborative workflow includes
three stages: Design, Generation, and Redesign, with an iterative loop between
the Generation and Redesign stages to progressively verify and refine the
generated videos. The Redesign stage is the most challenging stage that aims to
verify the generated videos, suggest corrections, and redesign the text
prompts, frame-wise layouts, and guidance scales for the next iteration of
generation. To avoid hallucination of a single MLLM agent, we decompose this
stage to four sequentially-executed MLLM-based agents: verification agent,
suggestion agent, correction agent, and output structuring agent. Furthermore,
to tackle diverse scenarios of compositional text-to-video generation, we
design a self-routing mechanism to adaptively select the proper correction
agent from a collection of correction agents each specialized for one scenario.
Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of GenMAC, achieving
state-of-the art performance in compositional text-to-video generation.

---

## 9. [CompCap: Improving Multimodal Large Language Models with Composite
  Captions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.05243)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.05243](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05243)

**Authors**: Xiaohui Chen, Satya Narayan Shukla, Mahmoud Azab, Aashu Singh, Qifan Wang, David Yang, ShengYun Peng, Hanchao Yu, Shen Yan, Xuewen Zhang, Baosheng He

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Xiaohui Chen

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

How well can Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) understand composite
images? Composite images (CIs) are synthetic visuals created by merging
multiple visual elements, such as charts, posters, or screenshots, rather than
being captured directly by a camera. While CIs are prevalent in real-world
applications, recent MLLM developments have primarily focused on interpreting
natural images (NIs). Our research reveals that current MLLMs face significant
challenges in accurately understanding CIs, often struggling to extract
information or perform complex reasoning based on these images. We find that
existing training data for CIs are mostly formatted for question-answer tasks
(e.g., in datasets like ChartQA and ScienceQA), while high-quality
image-caption datasets, critical for robust vision-language alignment, are only
available for NIs. To bridge this gap, we introduce Composite Captions
(CompCap), a flexible framework that leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) and
automation tools to synthesize CIs with accurate and detailed captions. Using
CompCap, we curate CompCap-118K, a dataset containing 118K image-caption pairs
across six CI types. We validate the effectiveness of CompCap-118K by
supervised fine-tuning MLLMs of three sizes: xGen-MM-inst.-4B and
LLaVA-NeXT-Vicuna-7B/13B. Empirical results show that CompCap-118K
significantly enhances MLLMs' understanding of CIs, yielding average gains of
1.7%, 2.0%, and 2.9% across eleven benchmarks, respectively.

---

## 10. [Momentum-GS: Momentum Gaussian Self-Distillation for High-Quality Large
  Scene Reconstruction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04887)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04887](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04887)

**Authors**: Jixuan Fan, Wanhua Li, Yifei Han, Yansong Tang

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Wanhua Li

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Jixuan-Fan/Momentum-GS) | [Project Page](https://jixuan-fan.github.io/Momentum-GS)

### Abstract

3D Gaussian Splatting has demonstrated notable success in large-scale scene
reconstruction, but challenges persist due to high training memory consumption
and storage overhead. Hybrid representations that integrate implicit and
explicit features offer a way to mitigate these limitations. However, when
applied in parallelized block-wise training, two critical issues arise since
reconstruction accuracy deteriorates due to reduced data diversity when
training each block independently, and parallel training restricts the number
of divided blocks to the available number of GPUs. To address these issues, we
propose Momentum-GS, a novel approach that leverages momentum-based
self-distillation to promote consistency and accuracy across the blocks while
decoupling the number of blocks from the physical GPU count. Our method
maintains a teacher Gaussian decoder updated with momentum, ensuring a stable
reference during training. This teacher provides each block with global
guidance in a self-distillation manner, promoting spatial consistency in
reconstruction. To further ensure consistency across the blocks, we incorporate
block weighting, dynamically adjusting each block's weight according to its
reconstruction accuracy. Extensive experiments on large-scale scenes show that
our method consistently outperforms existing techniques, achieving a 12.8%
improvement in LPIPS over CityGaussian with much fewer divided blocks and
establishing a new state of the art. Project page:
https://jixuan-fan.github.io/Momentum-GS_Page/

---

## 11. [BigDocs: An Open and Permissively-Licensed Dataset for Training
  Multimodal Models on Document and Code Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04626)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04626](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04626)

**Authors**: Juan Rodriguez, Xiangru Jian, Siba Smarak Panigrahi, Tianyu Zhang, Aarash Feizi, Abhay Puri, Akshay Kalkunte, François Savard, Ahmed Masry, Shravan Nayak, Rabiul Awal, Mahsa Massoud, Amirhossein Abaskohi, Zichao Li, Suyuchen Wang, Pierre-André Noël, Mats Leon Richter, Saverio Vadacchino, Shubbam Agarwal, Sanket Biswas, Sara Shanian, Ying Zhang, Noah Bolger, Kurt MacDonald, Simon Fauvel, Sathwik Tejaswi, Srinivas Sunkara, Joao Monteiro, Krishnamurthy DJ Dvijotham, Torsten Scholak, Nicolas Chapados, Sepideh Kharagani, Sean Hughes, M. Özsu, Siva Reddy, Marco Pedersoli, Yoshua Bengio, Christopher Pal, Issam Laradji, Spandanna Gella, Perouz Taslakian, David Vazquez, Sai Rajeswar

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Juan A. Rodriguez

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [Project Page](https://bigdocs.github.io)

### Abstract

Multimodal AI has the potential to significantly enhance
document-understanding tasks, such as processing receipts, understanding
workflows, extracting data from documents, and summarizing reports. Code
generation tasks that require long-structured outputs can also be enhanced by
multimodality. Despite this, their use in commercial applications is often
limited due to limited access to training data and restrictive licensing, which
hinders open access. To address these limitations, we introduce BigDocs-7.5M, a
high-quality, open-access dataset comprising 7.5 million multimodal documents
across 30 tasks. We use an efficient data curation process to ensure our data
is high-quality and license-permissive. Our process emphasizes accountability,
responsibility, and transparency through filtering rules, traceable metadata,
and careful content analysis. Additionally, we introduce BigDocs-Bench, a
benchmark suite with 10 novel tasks where we create datasets that reflect
real-world use cases involving reasoning over Graphical User Interfaces (GUI)
and code generation from images. Our experiments show that training with
BigDocs-Bench improves average performance up to 25.8% over closed-source
GPT-4o in document reasoning and structured output tasks such as
Screenshot2HTML or Image2Latex generation. Finally, human evaluations showed a
preference for outputs from models trained on BigDocs over GPT-4o. This
suggests that BigDocs can help both academics and the open-source community
utilize and improve AI tools to enhance multimodal capabilities and document
reasoning. The project is hosted at https://bigdocs.github.io .

---

## 12. [Mind the Time: Temporally-Controlled Multi-Event Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.05263)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.05263](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05263)

**Authors**: Ziyi Wu, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Willi Menapace, Ivan Skorokhodov, Yuwei Fang, Varnith Chordia, Igor Gilitschenski, Sergey Tulyakov

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by YSH

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [Project Page](https://mint-video.github.io/)

### Abstract

Real-world videos consist of sequences of events. Generating such sequences
with precise temporal control is infeasible with existing video generators that
rely on a single paragraph of text as input. When tasked with generating
multiple events described using a single prompt, such methods often ignore some
of the events or fail to arrange them in the correct order. To address this
limitation, we present MinT, a multi-event video generator with temporal
control. Our key insight is to bind each event to a specific period in the
generated video, which allows the model to focus on one event at a time. To
enable time-aware interactions between event captions and video tokens, we
design a time-based positional encoding method, dubbed ReRoPE. This encoding
helps to guide the cross-attention operation. By fine-tuning a pre-trained
video diffusion transformer on temporally grounded data, our approach produces
coherent videos with smoothly connected events. For the first time in the
literature, our model offers control over the timing of events in generated
videos. Extensive experiments demonstrate that MinT outperforms existing
open-source models by a large margin.

---

## 13. [PanoDreamer: 3D Panorama Synthesis from a Single Image](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04827)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04827](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04827)

**Authors**: Avinash Paliwal, Xilong Zhou, Andrii Tsarov, Nima Khademi Kalantari

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Avinash Paliwal

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/avinashpaliwal/PanoDreamer)

### Abstract

In this paper, we present PanoDreamer, a novel method for producing a
coherent 360^circ 3D scene from a single input image. Unlike existing
methods that generate the scene sequentially, we frame the problem as
single-image panorama and depth estimation. Once the coherent panoramic image
and its corresponding depth are obtained, the scene can be reconstructed by
inpainting the small occluded regions and projecting them into 3D space. Our
key contribution is formulating single-image panorama and depth estimation as
two optimization tasks and introducing alternating minimization strategies to
effectively solve their objectives. We demonstrate that our approach
outperforms existing techniques in single-image 360^circ scene
reconstruction in terms of consistency and overall quality.

---

## 14. [2DGS-Room: Seed-Guided 2D Gaussian Splatting with Geometric Constrains
  for High-Fidelity Indoor Scene Reconstruction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.03428)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.03428](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03428)

**Authors**: Wanting Zhang, Haodong Xiang, Zhichao Liao, Xiansong Lai, Xinghui Li, Long Zeng

**Published**: 2024-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Wanting Zhang

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Valentina-Zhang/2DGS-Room) | [Project Page](https://valentina-zhang.github.io/2DGS-Room/)

### Abstract

The reconstruction of indoor scenes remains challenging due to the inherent
complexity of spatial structures and the prevalence of textureless regions.
Recent advancements in 3D Gaussian Splatting have improved novel view synthesis
with accelerated processing but have yet to deliver comparable performance in
surface reconstruction. In this paper, we introduce 2DGS-Room, a novel method
leveraging 2D Gaussian Splatting for high-fidelity indoor scene reconstruction.
Specifically, we employ a seed-guided mechanism to control the distribution of
2D Gaussians, with the density of seed points dynamically optimized through
adaptive growth and pruning mechanisms. To further improve geometric accuracy,
we incorporate monocular depth and normal priors to provide constraints for
details and textureless regions respectively. Additionally, multi-view
consistency constraints are employed to mitigate artifacts and further enhance
reconstruction quality. Extensive experiments on ScanNet and ScanNet++ datasets
demonstrate that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in indoor
scene reconstruction.

---

## 15. [DEMO: Reframing Dialogue Interaction with Fine-grained Element Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04905)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04905](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04905)

**Authors**: Minzheng Wang, Xinghua Zhang, Kun Chen, Nan Xu, Haiyang Yu, Fei Huang, Wenji Mao, Yongbin Li

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by mz.w

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mozerwang/demo)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have made dialogue one of the central modes of
human-machine interaction, leading to the accumulation of vast amounts of
conversation logs and increasing demand for dialogue generation. A
conversational life-cycle spans from the Prelude through the Interlocution to
the Epilogue, encompassing various elements. Despite the existence of numerous
dialogue-related studies, there is a lack of benchmarks that encompass
comprehensive dialogue elements, hindering precise modeling and systematic
evaluation. To bridge this gap, we introduce an innovative research task
Dialogue Element MOdeling, including
Element Awareness and Dialogue Agent Interaction, and
propose a novel benchmark, DEMO, designed for a comprehensive
dialogue modeling and assessment. Inspired by imitation learning, we further
build the agent which possesses the adept ability to model dialogue elements
based on the DEMO benchmark. Extensive experiments indicate that existing LLMs
still exhibit considerable potential for enhancement, and our DEMO agent has
superior performance in both in-domain and out-of-domain tasks.

---

## 16. [RL Zero: Zero-Shot Language to Behaviors without any Supervision](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.05718)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.05718](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05718)

**Authors**: Harshit Sikchi, Siddhant Agarwal, Pranaya Jajoo, Samyak Parajuli, Caleb Chuck, Max Rudolph, Peter Stone, Amy Zhang, Scott Niekum

**Published**: 2024-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-09 by Harshit Sikchi

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [Project Page](https://hari-sikchi.github.io/rlzero)

### Abstract

Rewards remain an uninterpretable way to specify tasks for Reinforcement
Learning, as humans are often unable to predict the optimal behavior of any
given reward function, leading to poor reward design and reward hacking.
Language presents an appealing way to communicate intent to agents and bypass
reward design, but prior efforts to do so have been limited by costly and
unscalable labeling efforts. In this work, we propose a method for a completely
unsupervised alternative to grounding language instructions in a zero-shot
manner to obtain policies. We present a solution that takes the form of
imagine, project, and imitate: The agent imagines the observation sequence
corresponding to the language description of a task, projects the imagined
sequence to our target domain, and grounds it to a policy. Video-language
models allow us to imagine task descriptions that leverage knowledge of tasks
learned from internet-scale video-text mappings. The challenge remains to
ground these generations to a policy. In this work, we show that we can achieve
a zero-shot language-to-behavior policy by first grounding the imagined
sequences in real observations of an unsupervised RL agent and using a
closed-form solution to imitation learning that allows the RL agent to mimic
the grounded observations. Our method, RLZero, is the first to our knowledge to
show zero-shot language to behavior generation abilities without any
supervision on a variety of tasks on simulated domains. We further show that
RLZero can also generate policies zero-shot from cross-embodied videos such as
those scraped from YouTube.

---
