# Daily Papers - 2024-12-30

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-12-30)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [HuatuoGPT-o1, Towards Medical Complex Reasoning with LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.18925)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.18925](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18925)

**Authors**: Junying Chen, Zhenyang Cai, Ke Ji, Xidong Wang, Wanlong Liu, Rongsheng Wang, Jianye Hou, Benyou Wang

**Published**: 2024-12-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 107

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/freedomintelligence/huatuogpt-o1)

### Abstract

The breakthrough of OpenAI o1 highlights the potential of enhancing reasoning
to improve LLM. Yet, most research in reasoning has focused on mathematical
tasks, leaving domains like medicine underexplored. The medical domain, though
distinct from mathematics, also demands robust reasoning to provide reliable
answers, given the high standards of healthcare. However, verifying medical
reasoning is challenging, unlike those in mathematics. To address this, we
propose verifiable medical problems with a medical verifier to check the
correctness of model outputs. This verifiable nature enables advancements in
medical reasoning through a two-stage approach: (1) using the verifier to guide
the search for a complex reasoning trajectory for fine-tuning LLMs, (2)
applying reinforcement learning (RL) with verifier-based rewards to enhance
complex reasoning further. Finally, we introduce HuatuoGPT-o1, a medical LLM
capable of complex reasoning, which outperforms general and medical-specific
baselines using only 40K verifiable problems. Experiments show complex
reasoning improves medical problem-solving and benefits more from RL. We hope
our approach inspires advancements in reasoning across medical and other
specialized domains.

---

## 2. [1.58-bit FLUX](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.18653)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.18653](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18653)

**Authors**: Chenglin Yang, Celong Liu, Xueqing Deng, Dongwon Kim, Xing Mei, Xiaohui Shen, Liang-Chieh Chen

**Published**: 2024-12-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 86

**Links**: [Project Page](https://chenglin-yang.github.io/1.58bit.flux.github.io/)

### Abstract

We present 1.58-bit FLUX, the first successful approach to quantizing the
state-of-the-art text-to-image generation model, FLUX.1-dev, using 1.58-bit
weights (i.e., values in {-1, 0, +1}) while maintaining comparable performance
for generating 1024 x 1024 images. Notably, our quantization method operates
without access to image data, relying solely on self-supervision from the
FLUX.1-dev model. Additionally, we develop a custom kernel optimized for
1.58-bit operations, achieving a 7.7x reduction in model storage, a 5.1x
reduction in inference memory, and improved inference latency. Extensive
evaluations on the GenEval and T2I Compbench benchmarks demonstrate the
effectiveness of 1.58-bit FLUX in maintaining generation quality while
significantly enhancing computational efficiency.

---

## 3. [Next Token Prediction Towards Multimodal Intelligence: A Comprehensive Survey](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.18619)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.18619](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18619)

**Authors**: Liang Chen, Shuhuai Ren, Lei Li, Haozhe Zhao, Yunshui Li, Zefan Cai, Hongcheng Guo, Lei Zhang, Yizhe Xiong, Ruoyu Wu, Qingxiu Dong, Ge Zhang, Jian Yang, Lingwei Meng, Shujie Hu, Yulong Chen, Junyang Lin, Shuai Bai, Andreas Vlachos, Xu Tan, Minjia Zhang, Wen Xiao, Aaron Yee, Tianyu Liu, Baobao Chang

**Published**: 2024-12-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 60

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lmm101/awesome-multimodal-next-token-prediction)

### Abstract

Building on the foundations of language modeling in natural language processing, Next Token Prediction (NTP) has evolved into a versatile training objective for machine learning tasks across various modalities, achieving considerable success. As Large Language Models (LLMs) have advanced to unify understanding and generation tasks within the textual modality, recent research has shown that tasks from different modalities can also be effectively encapsulated within the NTP framework, transforming the multimodal information into tokens and predict the next one given the context. This survey introduces a comprehensive taxonomy that unifies both understanding and generation within multimodal learning through the lens of NTP. The proposed taxonomy covers five key aspects: Multimodal tokenization, MMNTP model architectures, unified task representation, datasets \& evaluation, and open challenges. This new taxonomy aims to aid researchers in their exploration of multimodal intelligence. An associated GitHub repository collecting the latest papers and repos is available at https://github.com/LMM101/Awesome-Multimodal-Next-Token-Prediction

---

## 4. [Orient Anything: Learning Robust Object Orientation Estimation from
  Rendering 3D Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.18605)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.18605](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18605)

**Authors**: Zehan Wang, Ziang Zhang, Tianyu Pang, Chao Du, Hengshuang Zhao, Zhou Zhao

**Published**: 2024-12-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by ZehanWang

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SpatialVision/Orient-Anything) | [Project Page](https://orient-anything.github.io/)

### Abstract

Orientation is a key attribute of objects, crucial for understanding their
spatial pose and arrangement in images. However, practical solutions for
accurate orientation estimation from a single image remain underexplored. In
this work, we introduce Orient Anything, the first expert and foundational
model designed to estimate object orientation in a single- and free-view image.
Due to the scarcity of labeled data, we propose extracting knowledge from the
3D world. By developing a pipeline to annotate the front face of 3D objects and
render images from random views, we collect 2M images with precise orientation
annotations. To fully leverage the dataset, we design a robust training
objective that models the 3D orientation as probability distributions of three
angles and predicts the object orientation by fitting these distributions.
Besides, we employ several strategies to improve synthetic-to-real transfer.
Our model achieves state-of-the-art orientation estimation accuracy in both
rendered and real images and exhibits impressive zero-shot ability in various
scenarios. More importantly, our model enhances many applications, such as
comprehension and generation of complex spatial concepts and 3D object pose
adjustment.

---

## 5. [Task Preference Optimization: Improving Multimodal Large Language Models
  with Vision Task Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.19326)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.19326](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19326)

**Authors**: Ziang Yan, Zhilin Li, Yinan He, Chenting Wang, Kunchang Li, Xinhao Li, Xiangyu Zeng, Zilei Wang, Yali Wang, Yu Qiao, Limin Wang, Yi Wang

**Published**: 2024-12-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by yinanhe

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opengvlab/tpo)

### Abstract

Current multimodal large language models (MLLMs) struggle with fine-grained
or precise understanding of visuals though they give comprehensive perception
and reasoning in a spectrum of vision applications. Recent studies either
develop tool-using or unify specific visual tasks into the autoregressive
framework, often at the expense of overall multimodal performance. To address
this issue and enhance MLLMs with visual tasks in a scalable fashion, we
propose Task Preference Optimization (TPO), a novel method that utilizes
differentiable task preferences derived from typical fine-grained visual tasks.
TPO introduces learnable task tokens that establish connections between
multiple task-specific heads and the MLLM. By leveraging rich visual labels
during training, TPO significantly enhances the MLLM's multimodal capabilities
and task-specific performance. Through multi-task co-training within TPO, we
observe synergistic benefits that elevate individual task performance beyond
what is achievable through single-task training methodologies. Our
instantiation of this approach with VideoChat and LLaVA demonstrates an overall
14.6% improvement in multimodal performance compared to baseline models.
Additionally, MLLM-TPO demonstrates robust zero-shot capabilities across
various tasks, performing comparably to state-of-the-art supervised models. The
code will be released at https://github.com/OpenGVLab/TPO

---

## 6. [From Elements to Design: A Layered Approach for Automatic Graphic Design
  Composition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.19712)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.19712](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19712)

**Authors**: Jiawei Lin, Shizhao Sun, Danqing Huang, Ting Liu, Ji Li, Jiang Bian

**Published**: 2024-12-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by Jiawei Lin

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

In this work, we investigate automatic design composition from multimodal
graphic elements. Although recent studies have developed various generative
models for graphic design, they usually face the following limitations: they
only focus on certain subtasks and are far from achieving the design
composition task; they do not consider the hierarchical information of graphic
designs during the generation process. To tackle these issues, we introduce the
layered design principle into Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) and propose a
novel approach, called LaDeCo, to accomplish this challenging task.
Specifically, LaDeCo first performs layer planning for a given element set,
dividing the input elements into different semantic layers according to their
contents. Based on the planning results, it subsequently predicts element
attributes that control the design composition in a layer-wise manner, and
includes the rendered image of previously generated layers into the context.
With this insightful design, LaDeCo decomposes the difficult task into smaller
manageable steps, making the generation process smoother and clearer. The
experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of LaDeCo in design
composition. Furthermore, we show that LaDeCo enables some interesting
applications in graphic design, such as resolution adjustment, element filling,
design variation, etc. In addition, it even outperforms the specialized models
in some design subtasks without any task-specific training.

---

## 7. [VideoMaker: Zero-shot Customized Video Generation with the Inherent
  Force of Video Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.19645)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.19645](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19645)

**Authors**: Tao Wu, Yong Zhang, Xiaodong Cun, Zhongang Qi, Junfu Pu, Huanzhang Dou, Guangcong Zheng, Ying Shan, Xi Li

**Published**: 2024-12-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by YSH

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wutao-cs/videomaker)

### Abstract

Zero-shot customized video generation has gained significant attention due to
its substantial application potential. Existing methods rely on additional
models to extract and inject reference subject features, assuming that the
Video Diffusion Model (VDM) alone is insufficient for zero-shot customized
video generation. However, these methods often struggle to maintain consistent
subject appearance due to suboptimal feature extraction and injection
techniques. In this paper, we reveal that VDM inherently possesses the force to
extract and inject subject features. Departing from previous heuristic
approaches, we introduce a novel framework that leverages VDM's inherent force
to enable high-quality zero-shot customized video generation. Specifically, for
feature extraction, we directly input reference images into VDM and use its
intrinsic feature extraction process, which not only provides fine-grained
features but also significantly aligns with VDM's pre-trained knowledge. For
feature injection, we devise an innovative bidirectional interaction between
subject features and generated content through spatial self-attention within
VDM, ensuring that VDM has better subject fidelity while maintaining the
diversity of the generated video.Experiments on both customized human and
object video generation validate the effectiveness of our framework.

---

## 8. [The Superposition of Diffusion Models Using the Itô Density Estimator](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.17762)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.17762](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17762)

**Authors**: Marta Skreta, Lazar Atanackovic, Avishek Joey Bose, Alexander Tong, Kirill Neklyudov

**Published**: 2024-12-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by Marta Skreta

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/necludov/super-diffusion)

### Abstract

The Cambrian explosion of easily accessible pre-trained diffusion models
suggests a demand for methods that combine multiple different pre-trained
diffusion models without incurring the significant computational burden of
re-training a larger combined model. In this paper, we cast the problem of
combining multiple pre-trained diffusion models at the generation stage under a
novel proposed framework termed superposition. Theoretically, we derive
superposition from rigorous first principles stemming from the celebrated
continuity equation and design two novel algorithms tailor-made for combining
diffusion models in SuperDiff. SuperDiff leverages a new scalable It\^o density
estimator for the log likelihood of the diffusion SDE which incurs no
additional overhead compared to the well-known Hutchinson's estimator needed
for divergence calculations. We demonstrate that SuperDiff is scalable to large
pre-trained diffusion models as superposition is performed solely through
composition during inference, and also enjoys painless implementation as it
combines different pre-trained vector fields through an automated re-weighting
scheme. Notably, we show that SuperDiff is efficient during inference time, and
mimics traditional composition operators such as the logical OR and the logical
AND. We empirically demonstrate the utility of using SuperDiff for generating
more diverse images on CIFAR-10, more faithful prompt conditioned image editing
using Stable Diffusion, and improved unconditional de novo structure design of
proteins. https://github.com/necludov/super-diffusion

---

## 9. [Safeguard Fine-Tuned LLMs Through Pre- and Post-Tuning Model Merging](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.19512)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.19512](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19512)

**Authors**: Hua Farn, Hsuan Su, Shachi H Kumar, Saurav Sahay, Shang-Tse Chen, Hung-yi Lee

**Published**: 2024-12-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by Hsuan Su

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Fine-tuning large language models (LLMs) for downstream tasks is a widely
adopted approach, but it often leads to safety degradation in safety-aligned
LLMs. Currently, many solutions address this issue by incorporating additional
safety data, which can be impractical in many cases. In this paper, we address
the question: How can we improve downstream task performance while preserving
safety in LLMs without relying on additional safety data? We propose a simple
and effective method that maintains the inherent safety of LLMs while enhancing
their downstream task performance: merging the weights of pre- and
post-fine-tuned safety-aligned models. Experimental results across various
downstream tasks, models, and merging methods demonstrate that this approach
effectively mitigates safety degradation while improving downstream task
performance, offering a practical solution for adapting safety-aligned LLMs.

---

## 10. [CypherBench: Towards Precise Retrieval over Full-scale Modern Knowledge
  Graphs in the LLM Era](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.18702)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.18702](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18702)

**Authors**: Yanlin Feng, Simone Papicchio, Sajjadur Rahman

**Published**: 2024-12-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by Yanlin Feng

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/megagonlabs/cypherbench)

### Abstract

Retrieval from graph data is crucial for augmenting large language models
(LLM) with both open-domain knowledge and private enterprise data, and it is
also a key component in the recent GraphRAG system (edge et al., 2024). Despite
decades of research on knowledge graphs and knowledge base question answering,
leading LLM frameworks (e.g. Langchain and LlamaIndex) have only minimal
support for retrieval from modern encyclopedic knowledge graphs like Wikidata.
In this paper, we analyze the root cause and suggest that modern RDF knowledge
graphs (e.g. Wikidata, Freebase) are less efficient for LLMs due to overly
large schemas that far exceed the typical LLM context window, use of resource
identifiers, overlapping relation types and lack of normalization. As a
solution, we propose property graph views on top of the underlying RDF graph
that can be efficiently queried by LLMs using Cypher. We instantiated this idea
on Wikidata and introduced CypherBench, the first benchmark with 11
large-scale, multi-domain property graphs with 7.8 million entities and over
10,000 questions. To achieve this, we tackled several key challenges, including
developing an RDF-to-property graph conversion engine, creating a systematic
pipeline for text-to-Cypher task generation, and designing new evaluation
metrics.

---

## 11. [SBS Figures: Pre-training Figure QA from Stage-by-Stage Synthesized
  Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.17606)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.17606](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17606)

**Authors**: Risa Shinoda, Kuniaki Saito, Shohei Tanaka, Tosho Hirasawa, Yoshitaka Ushiku

**Published**: 2024-12-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-30 by Risa Shinoda

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/omron-sinicx/sbsfigures)

### Abstract

Building a large-scale figure QA dataset requires a considerable amount of
work, from gathering and selecting figures to extracting attributes like text,
numbers, and colors, and generating QAs. Although recent developments in LLMs
have led to efforts to synthesize figures, most of these focus primarily on QA
generation. Additionally, creating figures directly using LLMs often encounters
issues such as code errors, similar-looking figures, and repetitive content in
figures. To address this issue, we present SBSFigures (Stage-by-Stage Synthetic
Figures), a dataset for pre-training figure QA. Our proposed pipeline enables
the creation of chart figures with complete annotations of the visualized data
and dense QA annotations without any manual annotation process. Our
stage-by-stage pipeline makes it possible to create diverse topic and
appearance figures efficiently while minimizing code errors. Our SBSFigures
demonstrate a strong pre-training effect, making it possible to achieve
efficient training with a limited amount of real-world chart data starting from
our pre-trained weights.

---
