# Daily Papers - 2024-12-11

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-12-11)

Total papers: 26

---

## 1. [STIV: Scalable Text and Image Conditioned Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07730)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07730](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07730)

**Authors**: Zongyu Lin, Wei Liu, Chen Chen, Jiasen Lu, Wenze Hu, Tsu-Jui Fu, Jesse Allardice, Zhengfeng Lai, Liangchen Song, Bowen Zhang, Cha Chen, Yiran Fei, Yifan Jiang, Lezhi Li, Yizhou Sun, Kai-Wei Chang, Yinfei Yang

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Alex Yang

**Upvotes**: 74

### Abstract

The field of video generation has made remarkable advancements, yet there
remains a pressing need for a clear, systematic recipe that can guide the
development of robust and scalable models. In this work, we present a
comprehensive study that systematically explores the interplay of model
architectures, training recipes, and data curation strategies, culminating in a
simple and scalable text-image-conditioned video generation method, named STIV.
Our framework integrates image condition into a Diffusion Transformer (DiT)
through frame replacement, while incorporating text conditioning via a joint
image-text conditional classifier-free guidance. This design enables STIV to
perform both text-to-video (T2V) and text-image-to-video (TI2V) tasks
simultaneously. Additionally, STIV can be easily extended to various
applications, such as video prediction, frame interpolation, multi-view
generation, and long video generation, etc. With comprehensive ablation studies
on T2I, T2V, and TI2V, STIV demonstrate strong performance, despite its simple
design. An 8.7B model with 512 resolution achieves 83.1 on VBench T2V,
surpassing both leading open and closed-source models like CogVideoX-5B, Pika,
Kling, and Gen-3. The same-sized model also achieves a state-of-the-art result
of 90.1 on VBench I2V task at 512 resolution. By providing a transparent and
extensible recipe for building cutting-edge video generation models, we aim to
empower future research and accelerate progress toward more versatile and
reliable video generation solutions.

---

## 2. [Evaluating and Aligning CodeLLMs on Human Preference](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.05210)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.05210](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05210)

**Authors**: Jian Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Ke Jin, Yibo Miao, Lei Zhang, Liqun Yang, Zeyu Cui, Yichang Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Junyang Lin

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Yang Jian

**Upvotes**: 50

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen2.5-Coder) | [Project Page](https://codearenaeval.github.io/)

### Abstract

Code large language models (codeLLMs) have made significant strides in code
generation. Most previous code-related benchmarks, which consist of various
programming exercises along with the corresponding test cases, are used as a
common measure to evaluate the performance and capabilities of code LLMs.
However, the current code LLMs focus on synthesizing the correct code snippet,
ignoring the alignment with human preferences, where the query should be
sampled from the practical application scenarios and the model-generated
responses should satisfy the human preference. To bridge the gap between the
model-generated response and human preference, we present a rigorous
human-curated benchmark CodeArena to emulate the complexity and diversity of
real-world coding tasks, where 397 high-quality samples spanning 40 categories
and 44 programming languages, carefully curated from user queries. Further, we
propose a diverse synthetic instruction corpus SynCode-Instruct (nearly 20B
tokens) by scaling instructions from the website to verify the effectiveness of
the large-scale synthetic instruction fine-tuning, where Qwen2.5-SynCoder
totally trained on synthetic instruction data can achieve top-tier performance
of open-source code LLMs. The results find performance differences between
execution-based benchmarks and CodeArena. Our systematic experiments of
CodeArena on 40+ LLMs reveal a notable performance gap between open SOTA code
LLMs (e.g. Qwen2.5-Coder) and proprietary LLMs (e.g., OpenAI o1), underscoring
the importance of the human preference
alignment.\url{https://codearenaeval.github.io/ }

---

## 3. [DiffSensei: Bridging Multi-Modal LLMs and Diffusion Models for
  Customized Manga Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07589)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07589](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07589)

**Authors**: Jianzong Wu, Chao Tang, Jingbo Wang, Yanhong Zeng, Xiangtai Li, Yunhai Tong

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Xiangtai Li

**Upvotes**: 48

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jianzongwu/DiffSensei) | [Project Page](https://jianzongwu.github.io/projects/diffsensei/)

### Abstract

Story visualization, the task of creating visual narratives from textual
descriptions, has seen progress with text-to-image generation models. However,
these models often lack effective control over character appearances and
interactions, particularly in multi-character scenes. To address these
limitations, we propose a new task: customized manga generation and
introduce DiffSensei, an innovative framework specifically designed
for generating manga with dynamic multi-character control. DiffSensei
integrates a diffusion-based image generator with a multimodal large language
model (MLLM) that acts as a text-compatible identity adapter. Our approach
employs masked cross-attention to seamlessly incorporate character features,
enabling precise layout control without direct pixel transfer. Additionally,
the MLLM-based adapter adjusts character features to align with panel-specific
text cues, allowing flexible adjustments in character expressions, poses, and
actions. We also introduce MangaZero, a large-scale dataset tailored
to this task, containing 43,264 manga pages and 427,147 annotated panels,
supporting the visualization of varied character interactions and movements
across sequential frames. Extensive experiments demonstrate that DiffSensei
outperforms existing models, marking a significant advancement in manga
generation by enabling text-adaptable character customization. The project page
is https://jianzongwu.github.io/projects/diffsensei/.

---

## 4. [ACDiT: Interpolating Autoregressive Conditional Modeling and Diffusion
  Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07720)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07720](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07720)

**Authors**: Jinyi Hu, Shengding Hu, Yuxuan Song, Yufei Huang, Mingxuan Wang, Hao Zhou, Zhiyuan Liu, Wei-Ying Ma, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Jinyi Hu

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thunlp/acdit)

### Abstract

The recent surge of interest in comprehensive multimodal models has
necessitated the unification of diverse modalities. However, the unification
suffers from disparate methodologies. Continuous visual generation necessitates
the full-sequence diffusion-based approach, despite its divergence from the
autoregressive modeling in the text domain. We posit that autoregressive
modeling, i.e., predicting the future based on past deterministic experience,
remains crucial in developing both a visual generation model and a potential
unified multimodal model. In this paper, we explore an interpolation between
the autoregressive modeling and full-parameters diffusion to model visual
information. At its core, we present ACDiT, an Autoregressive blockwise
Conditional Diffusion Transformer, where the block size of diffusion, i.e., the
size of autoregressive units, can be flexibly adjusted to interpolate between
token-wise autoregression and full-sequence diffusion. ACDiT is easy to
implement, as simple as creating a Skip-Causal Attention Mask (SCAM) during
training. During inference, the process iterates between diffusion denoising
and autoregressive decoding that can make full use of KV-Cache. We verify the
effectiveness of ACDiT on image and video generation tasks. We also demonstrate
that benefitted from autoregressive modeling, ACDiT can be seamlessly used in
visual understanding tasks despite being trained on the diffusion objective.
The analysis of the trade-off between autoregressive modeling and diffusion
demonstrates the potential of ACDiT to be used in long-horizon visual
generation tasks. These strengths make it promising as the backbone of future
unified models.

---

## 5. [UniReal: Universal Image Generation and Editing via Learning Real-world
  Dynamics](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07774)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07774](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07774)

**Authors**: Xi Chen, Zhifei Zhang, He Zhang, Yuqian Zhou, Soo Ye Kim, Qing Liu, Yijun Li, Jianming Zhang, Nanxuan Zhao, Yilin Wang, Hui Ding, Zhe Lin, Hengshuang Zhao

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by xichen

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [Project Page](https://xavierchen34.github.io/UniReal-Page/)

### Abstract

We introduce UniReal, a unified framework designed to address various image
generation and editing tasks. Existing solutions often vary by tasks, yet share
fundamental principles: preserving consistency between inputs and outputs while
capturing visual variations. Inspired by recent video generation models that
effectively balance consistency and variation across frames, we propose a
unifying approach that treats image-level tasks as discontinuous video
generation. Specifically, we treat varying numbers of input and output images
as frames, enabling seamless support for tasks such as image generation,
editing, customization, composition, etc. Although designed for image-level
tasks, we leverage videos as a scalable source for universal supervision.
UniReal learns world dynamics from large-scale videos, demonstrating advanced
capability in handling shadows, reflections, pose variation, and object
interaction, while also exhibiting emergent capability for novel applications.

---

## 6. [Hidden in the Noise: Two-Stage Robust Watermarking for Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04653)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04653](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04653)

**Authors**: Kasra Arabi, Benjamin Feuer, R. Teal Witter, Chinmay Hegde, Niv Cohen

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Kasra Arabi

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Kasraarabi/Hidden-in-the-Noise)

### Abstract

As the quality of image generators continues to improve, deepfakes become a
topic of considerable societal debate. Image watermarking allows responsible
model owners to detect and label their AI-generated content, which can mitigate
the harm. Yet, current state-of-the-art methods in image watermarking remain
vulnerable to forgery and removal attacks. This vulnerability occurs in part
because watermarks distort the distribution of generated images,
unintentionally revealing information about the watermarking techniques.
  In this work, we first demonstrate a distortion-free watermarking method for
images, based on a diffusion model's initial noise. However, detecting the
watermark requires comparing the initial noise reconstructed for an image to
all previously used initial noises. To mitigate these issues, we propose a
two-stage watermarking framework for efficient detection. During generation, we
augment the initial noise with generated Fourier patterns to embed information
about the group of initial noises we used. For detection, we (i) retrieve the
relevant group of noises, and (ii) search within the given group for an initial
noise that might match our image. This watermarking approach achieves
state-of-the-art robustness to forgery and removal against a large battery of
attacks.

---

## 7. [OmniDocBench: Benchmarking Diverse PDF Document Parsing with
  Comprehensive Annotations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07626)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07626](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07626)

**Authors**: Linke Ouyang, Yuan Qu, Hongbin Zhou, Jiawei Zhu, Rui Zhang, Qunshu Lin, Bin Wang, Zhiyuan Zhao, Man Jiang, Xiaomeng Zhao, Jin Shi, Fan Wu, Pei Chu, Minghao Liu, Zhenxiang Li, Chao Xu, Bo Zhang, Botian Shi, Zhongying Tu, Conghui He

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Bin Wang

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opendatalab/OmniDocBench)

### Abstract

Document content extraction is crucial in computer vision, especially for
meeting the high-quality data needs of large language models (LLMs) and
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) technologies. However, current document
parsing methods suffer from significant limitations in terms of diversity and
comprehensive evaluation. To address these challenges, we introduce
OmniDocBench, a novel multi-source benchmark designed to advance automated
document content extraction. OmniDocBench includes a meticulously curated and
annotated high-quality evaluation dataset comprising nine diverse document
types, such as academic papers, textbooks, slides, among others. Our benchmark
provides a flexible and comprehensive evaluation framework with 19 layout
category labels and 14 attribute labels, enabling multi-level assessments
across entire datasets, individual modules, or specific data types. Using
OmniDocBench, we perform an exhaustive comparative analysis of existing modular
pipelines and multimodal end-to-end methods, highlighting their limitations in
handling document diversity and ensuring fair evaluation. OmniDocBench
establishes a robust, diverse, and fair evaluation standard for the document
content extraction field, offering crucial insights for future advancements and
fostering the development of document parsing technologies. The codes and
dataset is available in https://github.com/opendatalab/OmniDocBench.

---

## 8. [FiVA: Fine-grained Visual Attribute Dataset for Text-to-Image Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07674)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07674](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07674)

**Authors**: Tong Wu, Yinghao Xu, Ryan Po, Mengchen Zhang, Guandao Yang, Jiaqi Wang, Ziwei Liu, Dahua Lin, Gordon Wetzstein

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Jiaqi Wang

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wutong16/FiVA) | [Project Page](https://fiva-dataset.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent advances in text-to-image generation have enabled the creation of
high-quality images with diverse applications. However, accurately describing
desired visual attributes can be challenging, especially for non-experts in art
and photography. An intuitive solution involves adopting favorable attributes
from the source images. Current methods attempt to distill identity and style
from source images. However, "style" is a broad concept that includes texture,
color, and artistic elements, but does not cover other important attributes
such as lighting and dynamics. Additionally, a simplified "style" adaptation
prevents combining multiple attributes from different sources into one
generated image. In this work, we formulate a more effective approach to
decompose the aesthetics of a picture into specific visual attributes, allowing
users to apply characteristics such as lighting, texture, and dynamics from
different images. To achieve this goal, we constructed the first fine-grained
visual attributes dataset (FiVA) to the best of our knowledge. This FiVA
dataset features a well-organized taxonomy for visual attributes and includes
around 1 M high-quality generated images with visual attribute annotations.
Leveraging this dataset, we propose a fine-grained visual attribute adaptation
framework (FiVA-Adapter), which decouples and adapts visual attributes from one
or more source images into a generated one. This approach enhances
user-friendly customization, allowing users to selectively apply desired
attributes to create images that meet their unique preferences and specific
content requirements.

---

## 9. [Mobile Video Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07583)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07583](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07583)

**Authors**: Haitam Ben Yahia, Denis Korzhenkov, Ioannis Lelekas, Amir Ghodrati, Amirhossein Habibian

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Amir Habibian

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [Project Page](https://qualcomm-ai-research.github.io/mobile-video-diffusion/)

### Abstract

Video diffusion models have achieved impressive realism and controllability
but are limited by high computational demands, restricting their use on mobile
devices. This paper introduces the first mobile-optimized video diffusion
model. Starting from a spatio-temporal UNet from Stable Video Diffusion (SVD),
we reduce memory and computational cost by reducing the frame resolution,
incorporating multi-scale temporal representations, and introducing two novel
pruning schema to reduce the number of channels and temporal blocks.
Furthermore, we employ adversarial finetuning to reduce the denoising to a
single step. Our model, coined as MobileVD, is 523x more efficient (1817.2 vs.
4.34 TFLOPs) with a slight quality drop (FVD 149 vs. 171), generating latents
for a 14x512x256 px clip in 1.7 seconds on a Xiaomi-14 Pro. Our results are
available at https://qualcomm-ai-research.github.io/mobile-video-diffusion/

---

## 10. [3DTrajMaster: Mastering 3D Trajectory for Multi-Entity Motion in Video
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07759)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07759](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07759)

**Authors**: Xiao Fu, Xian Liu, Xintao Wang, Sida Peng, Menghan Xia, Xiaoyu Shi, Ziyang Yuan, Pengfei Wan, Dahua Lin

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Xiao Fu

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/KwaiVGI/3DTrajMaster) | [Project Page](http://fuxiao0719.github.io/projects/3dtrajmaster)

### Abstract

This paper aims to manipulate multi-entity 3D motions in video generation.
Previous methods on controllable video generation primarily leverage 2D control
signals to manipulate object motions and have achieved remarkable synthesis
results. However, 2D control signals are inherently limited in expressing the
3D nature of object motions. To overcome this problem, we introduce
3DTrajMaster, a robust controller that regulates multi-entity dynamics in 3D
space, given user-desired 6DoF pose (location and rotation) sequences of
entities. At the core of our approach is a plug-and-play 3D-motion grounded
object injector that fuses multiple input entities with their respective 3D
trajectories through a gated self-attention mechanism. In addition, we exploit
an injector architecture to preserve the video diffusion prior, which is
crucial for generalization ability. To mitigate video quality degradation, we
introduce a domain adaptor during training and employ an annealed sampling
strategy during inference. To address the lack of suitable training data, we
construct a 360-Motion Dataset, which first correlates collected 3D human and
animal assets with GPT-generated trajectory and then captures their motion with
12 evenly-surround cameras on diverse 3D UE platforms. Extensive experiments
show that 3DTrajMaster sets a new state-of-the-art in both accuracy and
generalization for controlling multi-entity 3D motions. Project page:
http://fuxiao0719.github.io/projects/3dtrajmaster

---

## 11. [Granite Guardian](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07724)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07724](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07724)

**Authors**: Inkit Padhi, Manish Nagireddy, Giandomenico Cornacchia, Subhajit Chaudhury, Tejaswini Pedapati, Pierre Dognin, Keerthiram Murugesan, Erik Miehling, Martín Santillán Cooper, Kieran Fraser, Giulio Zizzo, Muhammad Zaid Hameed, Mark Purcell, Michael Desmond, Qian Pan, Inge Vejsbjerg, Elizabeth M. Daly, Michael Hind, Werner Geyer, Ambrish Rawat, Kush R. Varshney, Prasanna Sattigeri

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ibm-granite/granite-guardian)

### Abstract

We introduce the Granite Guardian models, a suite of safeguards designed to
provide risk detection for prompts and responses, enabling safe and responsible
use in combination with any large language model (LLM). These models offer
comprehensive coverage across multiple risk dimensions, including social bias,
profanity, violence, sexual content, unethical behavior, jailbreaking, and
hallucination-related risks such as context relevance, groundedness, and answer
relevance for retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). Trained on a unique dataset
combining human annotations from diverse sources and synthetic data, Granite
Guardian models address risks typically overlooked by traditional risk
detection models, such as jailbreaks and RAG-specific issues. With AUC scores
of 0.871 and 0.854 on harmful content and RAG-hallucination-related benchmarks
respectively, Granite Guardian is the most generalizable and competitive model
available in the space. Released as open-source, Granite Guardian aims to
promote responsible AI development across the community.
  https://github.com/ibm-granite/granite-guardian

---

## 12. [MoViE: Mobile Diffusion for Video Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.06578)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.06578](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06578)

**Authors**: Adil Karjauv, Noor Fathima, Ioannis Lelekas, Fatih Porikli, Amir Ghodrati, Amirhossein Habibian

**Published**: 2024-12-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Amir Habibian

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [Project Page](https://qualcomm-ai-research.github.io/mobile-video-editing/)

### Abstract

Recent progress in diffusion-based video editing has shown remarkable
potential for practical applications. However, these methods remain
prohibitively expensive and challenging to deploy on mobile devices. In this
study, we introduce a series of optimizations that render mobile video editing
feasible. Building upon the existing image editing model, we first optimize its
architecture and incorporate a lightweight autoencoder. Subsequently, we extend
classifier-free guidance distillation to multiple modalities, resulting in a
threefold on-device speedup. Finally, we reduce the number of sampling steps to
one by introducing a novel adversarial distillation scheme which preserves the
controllability of the editing process. Collectively, these optimizations
enable video editing at 12 frames per second on mobile devices, while
maintaining high quality. Our results are available at
https://qualcomm-ai-research.github.io/mobile-video-editing/

---

## 13. [Video Motion Transfer with Diffusion Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07776)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07776](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07776)

**Authors**: Alexander Pondaven, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Sergey Tulyakov, Philip Torr, Fabio Pizzati

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Xingyi Yang

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ditflow/ditflow)

### Abstract

We propose DiTFlow, a method for transferring the motion of a reference video
to a newly synthesized one, designed specifically for Diffusion Transformers
(DiT). We first process the reference video with a pre-trained DiT to analyze
cross-frame attention maps and extract a patch-wise motion signal called the
Attention Motion Flow (AMF). We guide the latent denoising process in an
optimization-based, training-free, manner by optimizing latents with our AMF
loss to generate videos reproducing the motion of the reference one. We also
apply our optimization strategy to transformer positional embeddings, granting
us a boost in zero-shot motion transfer capabilities. We evaluate DiTFlow
against recently published methods, outperforming all across multiple metrics
and human evaluation.

---

## 14. [Frame Representation Hypothesis: Multi-Token LLM Interpretability and
  Concept-Guided Text Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07334)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07334](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07334)

**Authors**: Pedro H. V. Valois, Lincon S. Souza, Erica K. Shimomoto, Kazuhiro Fukui

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Pedro H. V. Valois

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/phvv-me/frame-representation-hypothesis)

### Abstract

Interpretability is a key challenge in fostering trust for Large Language
Models (LLMs), which stems from the complexity of extracting reasoning from
model's parameters. We present the Frame Representation Hypothesis, a
theoretically robust framework grounded in the Linear Representation Hypothesis
(LRH) to interpret and control LLMs by modeling multi-token words. Prior
research explored LRH to connect LLM representations with linguistic concepts,
but was limited to single token analysis. As most words are composed of several
tokens, we extend LRH to multi-token words, thereby enabling usage on any
textual data with thousands of concepts. To this end, we propose words can be
interpreted as frames, ordered sequences of vectors that better capture
token-word relationships. Then, concepts can be represented as the average of
word frames sharing a common concept. We showcase these tools through Top-k
Concept-Guided Decoding, which can intuitively steer text generation using
concepts of choice. We verify said ideas on Llama 3.1, Gemma 2, and Phi 3
families, demonstrating gender and language biases, exposing harmful content,
but also potential to remediate them, leading to safer and more transparent
LLMs. Code is available at
https://github.com/phvv-me/frame-representation-hypothesis.git

---

## 15. [Perception Tokens Enhance Visual Reasoning in Multimodal Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.03548)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.03548](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03548)

**Authors**: Mahtab Bigverdi, Zelun Luo, Cheng-Yu Hsieh, Ethan Shen, Dongping Chen, Linda G. Shapiro, Ranjay Krishna

**Published**: 2024-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Chen Dongping

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Multimodal language models (MLMs) still face challenges in fundamental visual
perception tasks where specialized models excel. Tasks requiring reasoning
about 3D structures benefit from depth estimation, and reasoning about 2D
object instances benefits from object detection. Yet, MLMs can not produce
intermediate depth or boxes to reason over. Finetuning MLMs on relevant data
doesn't generalize well and outsourcing computation to specialized vision tools
is too compute-intensive and memory-inefficient. To address this, we introduce
Perception Tokens, intrinsic image representations designed to assist reasoning
tasks where language is insufficient. Perception tokens act as auxiliary
reasoning tokens, akin to chain-of-thought prompts in language models. For
example, in a depth-related task, an MLM augmented with perception tokens can
reason by generating a depth map as tokens, enabling it to solve the problem
effectively. We propose AURORA, a training method that augments MLMs with
perception tokens for improved reasoning over visual inputs. AURORA leverages a
VQVAE to transform intermediate image representations, such as depth maps into
a tokenized format and bounding box tokens, which is then used in a multi-task
training framework. AURORA achieves notable improvements across counting
benchmarks: +10.8% on BLINK, +11.3% on CVBench, and +8.3% on SEED-Bench,
outperforming finetuning approaches in generalization across datasets. It also
improves on relative depth: over +6% on BLINK. With perception tokens, AURORA
expands the scope of MLMs beyond language-based reasoning, paving the way for
more effective visual reasoning capabilities.

---

## 16. [EMOv2: Pushing 5M Vision Model Frontier](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.06674)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.06674](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06674)

**Authors**: Jiangning Zhang, Teng Hu, Haoyang He, Zhucun Xue, Yabiao Wang, Chengjie Wang, Yong Liu, Xiangtai Li, Dacheng Tao

**Published**: 2024-12-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Xiangtai Li

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zhangzjn/emov2)

### Abstract

This work focuses on developing parameter-efficient and lightweight models
for dense predictions while trading off parameters, FLOPs, and performance. Our
goal is to set up the new frontier of the 5M magnitude lightweight model on
various downstream tasks. Inverted Residual Block (IRB) serves as the
infrastructure for lightweight CNNs, but no counterparts have been recognized
by attention-based design. Our work rethinks the lightweight infrastructure of
efficient IRB and practical components in Transformer from a unified
perspective, extending CNN-based IRB to attention-based models and abstracting
a one-residual Meta Mobile Block (MMBlock) for lightweight model design.
Following neat but effective design criterion, we deduce a modern Improved
Inverted Residual Mobile Block (i2RMB) and improve a hierarchical Efficient
MOdel (EMOv2) with no elaborate complex structures. Considering the
imperceptible latency for mobile users when downloading models under 4G/5G
bandwidth and ensuring model performance, we investigate the performance upper
limit of lightweight models with a magnitude of 5M. Extensive experiments on
various vision recognition, dense prediction, and image generation tasks
demonstrate the superiority of our EMOv2 over state-of-the-art methods, e.g.,
EMOv2-1M/2M/5M achieve 72.3, 75.8, and 79.4 Top-1 that surpass equal-order
CNN-/Attention-based models significantly. At the same time, EMOv2-5M equipped
RetinaNet achieves 41.5 mAP for object detection tasks that surpasses the
previous EMO-5M by +2.6. When employing the more robust training recipe, our
EMOv2-5M eventually achieves 82.9 Top-1 accuracy, which elevates the
performance of 5M magnitude models to a new level. Code is available at
https://github.com/zhangzjn/EMOv2.

---

## 17. [LoRA.rar: Learning to Merge LoRAs via Hypernetworks for Subject-Style
  Conditioned Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.05148)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.05148](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05148)

**Authors**: Donald Shenaj, Ondrej Bohdal, Mete Ozay, Pietro Zanuttigh, Umberto Michieli

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Donald Shenaj

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/donaldssh/LoRA.rar)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in image generation models have enabled personalized
image creation with both user-defined subjects (content) and styles. Prior
works achieved personalization by merging corresponding low-rank adaptation
parameters (LoRAs) through optimization-based methods, which are
computationally demanding and unsuitable for real-time use on
resource-constrained devices like smartphones. To address this, we introduce
LoRA.rar, a method that not only improves image quality but also achieves a
remarkable speedup of over 4000times in the merging process. LoRA.rar
pre-trains a hypernetwork on a diverse set of content-style LoRA pairs,
learning an efficient merging strategy that generalizes to new, unseen
content-style pairs, enabling fast, high-quality personalization. Moreover, we
identify limitations in existing evaluation metrics for content-style quality
and propose a new protocol using multimodal large language models (MLLM) for
more accurate assessment. Our method significantly outperforms the current
state of the art in both content and style fidelity, as validated by MLLM
assessments and human evaluations.

---

## 18. [ILLUME: Illuminating Your LLMs to See, Draw, and Self-Enhance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.06673)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.06673](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06673)

**Authors**: Chunwei Wang, Guansong Lu, Junwei Yang, Runhui Huang, Jianhua Han, Lu Hou, Wei Zhang, Hang Xu

**Published**: 2024-12-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by chunwei

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce ILLUME, a unified multimodal large language model
(MLLM) that seamlessly integrates multimodal understanding and generation
capabilities within a single large language model through a unified next-token
prediction formulation. To address the large dataset size typically required
for image-text alignment, we propose to enhance data efficiency through the
design of a vision tokenizer that incorporates semantic information and a
progressive multi-stage training procedure. This approach reduces the dataset
size to just 15M for pretraining -- over four times fewer than what is
typically needed -- while achieving competitive or even superior performance
with existing unified MLLMs, such as Janus. Additionally, to promote
synergistic enhancement between understanding and generation capabilities,
which is under-explored in previous works, we introduce a novel self-enhancing
multimodal alignment scheme. This scheme supervises the MLLM to self-assess the
consistency between text descriptions and self-generated images, facilitating
the model to interpret images more accurately and avoid unrealistic and
incorrect predictions caused by misalignment in image generation. Based on
extensive experiments, our proposed ILLUME stands out and competes with
state-of-the-art unified MLLMs and specialized models across various benchmarks
for multimodal understanding, generation, and editing.

---

## 19. [Fully Open Source Moxin-7B Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.06845)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.06845](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06845)

**Authors**: Pu Zhao, Xuan Shen, Zhenglun Kong, Yixin Shen, Sung-En Chang, Timothy Rupprecht, Lei Lu, Enfu Nan, Changdi Yang, Yumei He, Xingchen Xu, Yu Huang, Wei Wang, Yue Chen, Yong He, Yanzhi Wang

**Published**: 2024-12-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/moxin-org/Moxin-LLM)

### Abstract

Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have undergone a significant
transformation, marked by a rapid rise in both their popularity and
capabilities. Leading this evolution are proprietary LLMs like GPT-4 and
GPT-o1, which have captured widespread attention in the AI community due to
their remarkable performance and versatility. Simultaneously, open-source LLMs,
such as LLaMA and Mistral, have made great contributions to the ever-increasing
popularity of LLMs due to the ease to customize and deploy the models across
diverse applications. Although open-source LLMs present unprecedented
opportunities for innovation and research, the commercialization of LLMs has
raised concerns about transparency, reproducibility, and safety. Many
open-source LLMs fail to meet fundamental transparency requirements by
withholding essential components like training code and data, and some use
restrictive licenses whilst claiming to be "open-source," which may hinder
further innovations on LLMs. To mitigate this issue, we introduce Moxin 7B, a
fully open-source LLM developed in accordance with the Model Openness Framework
(MOF), a ranked classification system that evaluates AI models based on model
completeness and openness, adhering to principles of open science, open source,
open data, and open access. Our model achieves the highest MOF classification
level of "open science" through the comprehensive release of pre-training code
and configurations, training and fine-tuning datasets, and intermediate and
final checkpoints. Experiments show that our model achieves superior
performance in zero-shot evaluation compared with popular 7B models and
performs competitively in few-shot evaluation.

---

## 20. [ObjCtrl-2.5D: Training-free Object Control with Camera Poses](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07721)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07721](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07721)

**Authors**: Zhouxia Wang, Yushi Lan, Shangchen Zhou, Chen Change Loy

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Zhouxia Wang

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wzhouxiff/ObjCtrl-2.5D) | [Project Page](https://wzhouxiff.github.io/projects/ObjCtrl-2.5D/)

### Abstract

This study aims to achieve more precise and versatile object control in
image-to-video (I2V) generation. Current methods typically represent the
spatial movement of target objects with 2D trajectories, which often fail to
capture user intention and frequently produce unnatural results. To enhance
control, we present ObjCtrl-2.5D, a training-free object control approach that
uses a 3D trajectory, extended from a 2D trajectory with depth information, as
a control signal. By modeling object movement as camera movement, ObjCtrl-2.5D
represents the 3D trajectory as a sequence of camera poses, enabling object
motion control using an existing camera motion control I2V generation model
(CMC-I2V) without training. To adapt the CMC-I2V model originally designed for
global motion control to handle local object motion, we introduce a module to
isolate the target object from the background, enabling independent local
control. In addition, we devise an effective way to achieve more accurate
object control by sharing low-frequency warped latent within the object's
region across frames. Extensive experiments demonstrate that ObjCtrl-2.5D
significantly improves object control accuracy compared to training-free
methods and offers more diverse control capabilities than training-based
approaches using 2D trajectories, enabling complex effects like object
rotation. Code and results are available at
https://wzhouxiff.github.io/projects/ObjCtrl-2.5D/.

---

## 21. [Chimera: Improving Generalist Model with Domain-Specific Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.05983)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.05983](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05983)

**Authors**: Tianshuo Peng, Mingsheng Li, Hongbin Zhou, Renqiu Xia, Renrui Zhang, Lei Bai, Song Mao, Conghui He, Aojun Zhou, Botian Shi, Tao Chen, Bo Zhang, Xiangyu Yue

**Published**: 2024-12-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Renqiu Xia

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/UniModal4Reasoning/Chimera) | [Project Page](https://unimodal4reasoning.github.io/chimera_page/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in Large Multi-modal Models (LMMs) underscore the
importance of scaling by increasing image-text paired data, achieving
impressive performance on general tasks. Despite their effectiveness in broad
applications, generalist models are primarily trained on web-scale datasets
dominated by natural images, resulting in the sacrifice of specialized
capabilities for domain-specific tasks that require extensive domain prior
knowledge. Moreover, directly integrating expert models tailored for specific
domains is challenging due to the representational gap and imbalanced
optimization between the generalist model and experts. To address these
challenges, we introduce Chimera, a scalable and low-cost multi-modal pipeline
designed to boost the ability of existing LMMs with domain-specific experts.
Specifically, we design a progressive training strategy to integrate features
from expert models into the input of a generalist LMM. To address the
imbalanced optimization caused by the well-aligned general visual encoder, we
introduce a novel Generalist-Specialist Collaboration Masking (GSCM) mechanism.
This results in a versatile model that excels across the chart, table, math,
and document domains, achieving state-of-the-art performance on multi-modal
reasoning and visual content extraction tasks, both of which are challenging
tasks for assessing existing LMMs.

---

## 22. [HARP: Hesitation-Aware Reframing in Transformer Inference Pass](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07282)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07282](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07282)

**Authors**: Romain Storaï, Seung-won Hwang

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Romain Storaï

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/romsto/harp)

### Abstract

This paper aims to improve the performance of large language models by
addressing the variable computational demands in inference steps, where some
tokens require more computational resources than others. We present HARP, a
simple modification to "off-the-shelf" Transformer forward pass. Drawing from
hesitation and the framing effect in decision-making, HARP selectively applies
additional computation when the model encounters uncertainty during token
generation. Our method mimics human cognitive processes by pausing at difficult
decision points and reframing inputs for a different perspective. Unlike other
approaches, HARP is model-agnostic, training-free, and easy to implement. We
thoroughly evaluate our method across various downstream tasks and model sizes,
demonstrating performance improvements up to +5.16%. Notably, HARP achieves
these gains while maintaining inference times twice faster than beam search.
Simple and yet with significant gains, HARP offers a practical solution for
enhancing the performance of Transformer-based language models with minimal
computational impact.

---

## 23. [GraPE: A Generate-Plan-Edit Framework for Compositional T2I Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.06089)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.06089](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06089)

**Authors**: Ashish Goswami, Satyam Kumar Modi, Santhosh Rishi Deshineni, Harman Singh, Prathosh A. P, Parag Singla

**Published**: 2024-12-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Ashish Goswami

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dair-iitd/GraPE) | [Project Page](https://dair-iitd.github.io/GraPE/)

### Abstract

Text-to-image (T2I) generation has seen significant progress with diffusion
models, enabling generation of photo-realistic images from text prompts.
Despite this progress, existing methods still face challenges in following
complex text prompts, especially those requiring compositional and multi-step
reasoning. Given such complex instructions, SOTA models often make mistakes in
faithfully modeling object attributes, and relationships among them. In this
work, we present an alternate paradigm for T2I synthesis, decomposing the task
of complex multi-step generation into three steps, (a) Generate: we first
generate an image using existing diffusion models (b) Plan: we make use of
Multi-Modal LLMs (MLLMs) to identify the mistakes in the generated image
expressed in terms of individual objects and their properties, and produce a
sequence of corrective steps required in the form of an edit-plan. (c) Edit: we
make use of an existing text-guided image editing models to sequentially
execute our edit-plan over the generated image to get the desired image which
is faithful to the original instruction. Our approach derives its strength from
the fact that it is modular in nature, is training free, and can be applied
over any combination of image generation and editing models. As an added
contribution, we also develop a model capable of compositional editing, which
further helps improve the overall accuracy of our proposed approach. Our method
flexibly trades inference time compute with performance on compositional text
prompts. We perform extensive experimental evaluation across 3 benchmarks and
10 T2I models including DALLE-3 and the latest -- SD-3.5-Large. Our approach
not only improves the performance of the SOTA models, by upto 3 points, it also
reduces the performance gap between weaker and stronger models.
https://dair-iitd.github.io/GraPE/{https://dair-iitd.github.io/GraPE/}

---

## 24. [A New Federated Learning Framework Against Gradient Inversion Attacks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07187)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07187](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07187)

**Authors**: Pengxin Guo, Shuang Zeng, Wenhao Chen, Xiaodan Zhang, Weihong Ren, Yuyin Zhou, Liangqiong Qu

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Pengxin Guo

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pengxin-guo/hyperfl)

### Abstract

Federated Learning (FL) aims to protect data privacy by enabling clients to
collectively train machine learning models without sharing their raw data.
However, recent studies demonstrate that information exchanged during FL is
subject to Gradient Inversion Attacks (GIA) and, consequently, a variety of
privacy-preserving methods have been integrated into FL to thwart such attacks,
such as Secure Multi-party Computing (SMC), Homomorphic Encryption (HE), and
Differential Privacy (DP). Despite their ability to protect data privacy, these
approaches inherently involve substantial privacy-utility trade-offs. By
revisiting the key to privacy exposure in FL under GIA, which lies in the
frequent sharing of model gradients that contain private data, we take a new
perspective by designing a novel privacy preserve FL framework that effectively
``breaks the direct connection'' between the shared parameters and the local
private data to defend against GIA. Specifically, we propose a Hypernetwork
Federated Learning (HyperFL) framework that utilizes hypernetworks to generate
the parameters of the local model and only the hypernetwork parameters are
uploaded to the server for aggregation. Theoretical analyses demonstrate the
convergence rate of the proposed HyperFL, while extensive experimental results
show the privacy-preserving capability and comparable performance of HyperFL.
Code is available at https://github.com/Pengxin-Guo/HyperFL.

---

## 25. [Contextualized Counterspeech: Strategies for Adaptation,
  Personalization, and Evaluation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07338)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07338](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07338)

**Authors**: Lorenzo Cima, Alessio Miaschi, Amaury Trujillo, Marco Avvenuti, Felice Dell'Orletta, Stefano Cresci

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Alessio Miaschi

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

AI-generated counterspeech offers a promising and scalable strategy to curb
online toxicity through direct replies that promote civil discourse. However,
current counterspeech is one-size-fits-all, lacking adaptation to the
moderation context and the users involved. We propose and evaluate multiple
strategies for generating tailored counterspeech that is adapted to the
moderation context and personalized for the moderated user. We instruct an
LLaMA2-13B model to generate counterspeech, experimenting with various
configurations based on different contextual information and fine-tuning
strategies. We identify the configurations that generate persuasive
counterspeech through a combination of quantitative indicators and human
evaluations collected via a pre-registered mixed-design crowdsourcing
experiment. Results show that contextualized counterspeech can significantly
outperform state-of-the-art generic counterspeech in adequacy and
persuasiveness, without compromising other characteristics. Our findings also
reveal a poor correlation between quantitative indicators and human
evaluations, suggesting that these methods assess different aspects and
highlighting the need for nuanced evaluation methodologies. The effectiveness
of contextualized AI-generated counterspeech and the divergence between human
and algorithmic evaluations underscore the importance of increased human-AI
collaboration in content moderation.

---

## 26. [Maximizing Alignment with Minimal Feedback: Efficiently Learning Rewards
  for Visuomotor Robot Policy Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04835)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04835](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04835)

**Authors**: Ran Tian, Yilin Wu, Chenfeng Xu, Masayoshi Tomizuka, Jitendra Malik, Andrea Bajcsy

**Published**: 2024-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-11 by Ran (Thomas) Tian

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Visuomotor robot policies, increasingly pre-trained on large-scale datasets,
promise significant advancements across robotics domains. However, aligning
these policies with end-user preferences remains a challenge, particularly when
the preferences are hard to specify. While reinforcement learning from human
feedback (RLHF) has become the predominant mechanism for alignment in
non-embodied domains like large language models, it has not seen the same
success in aligning visuomotor policies due to the prohibitive amount of human
feedback required to learn visual reward functions. To address this limitation,
we propose Representation-Aligned Preference-based Learning (RAPL), an
observation-only method for learning visual rewards from significantly less
human preference feedback. Unlike traditional RLHF, RAPL focuses human feedback
on fine-tuning pre-trained vision encoders to align with the end-user's visual
representation and then constructs a dense visual reward via feature matching
in this aligned representation space. We first validate RAPL through simulation
experiments in the X-Magical benchmark and Franka Panda robotic manipulation,
demonstrating that it can learn rewards aligned with human preferences, more
efficiently uses preference data, and generalizes across robot embodiments.
Finally, our hardware experiments align pre-trained Diffusion Policies for
three object manipulation tasks. We find that RAPL can fine-tune these policies
with 5x less real human preference data, taking the first step towards
minimizing human feedback while maximizing visuomotor robot policy alignment.

---
