# Daily Papers - 2024-12-19

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-12-19)

Total papers: 22

---

## 1. [Smarter, Better, Faster, Longer: A Modern Bidirectional Encoder for
  Fast, Memory Efficient, and Long Context Finetuning and Inference](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13663)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.13663](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13663)

**Authors**: Benjamin Warner, Antoine Chaffin, Benjamin Clavié, Orion Weller, Oskar Hallström, Said Taghadouini, Alexis Gallagher, Raja Biswas, Faisal Ladhak, Tom Aarsen, Nathan Cooper, Griffin Adams, Jeremy Howard, Iacopo Poli

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Jeremy Howard

**Upvotes**: 161

### Abstract

Encoder-only transformer models such as BERT offer a great performance-size
tradeoff for retrieval and classification tasks with respect to larger
decoder-only models. Despite being the workhorse of numerous production
pipelines, there have been limited Pareto improvements to BERT since its
release. In this paper, we introduce ModernBERT, bringing modern model
optimizations to encoder-only models and representing a major Pareto
improvement over older encoders. Trained on 2 trillion tokens with a native
8192 sequence length, ModernBERT models exhibit state-of-the-art results on a
large pool of evaluations encompassing diverse classification tasks and both
single and multi-vector retrieval on different domains (including code). In
addition to strong downstream performance, ModernBERT is also the most speed
and memory efficient encoder and is designed for inference on common GPUs.

---

## 2. [FastVLM: Efficient Vision Encoding for Vision Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13303)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.13303](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13303)

**Authors**: Pavan Kumar Anasosalu Vasu, Fartash Faghri, Chun-Liang Li, Cem Koc, Nate True, Albert Antony, Gokul Santhanam, James Gabriel, Peter Grasch, Oncel Tuzel, Hadi Pouransari

**Published**: 2024-12-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Hadi Pouransari

**Upvotes**: 75

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/apple/ml-fastvlm)

### Abstract

Scaling the input image resolution is essential for enhancing the performance
of Vision Language Models (VLMs), particularly in text-rich image understanding
tasks. However, popular visual encoders such as ViTs become inefficient at high
resolutions due to the large number of tokens and high encoding latency caused
by stacked self-attention layers. At different operational resolutions, the
vision encoder of a VLM can be optimized along two axes: reducing encoding
latency and minimizing the number of visual tokens passed to the LLM, thereby
lowering overall latency. Based on a comprehensive efficiency analysis of the
interplay between image resolution, vision latency, token count, and LLM size,
we introduce FastVLM, a model that achieves an optimized trade-off between
latency, model size and accuracy. FastVLM incorporates FastViTHD, a novel
hybrid vision encoder designed to output fewer tokens and significantly reduce
encoding time for high-resolution images. Unlike previous methods, FastVLM
achieves the optimal balance between visual token count and image resolution
solely by scaling the input image, eliminating the need for additional token
pruning and simplifying the model design. In the LLaVA-1.5 setup, FastVLM
achieves 3.2times improvement in time-to-first-token (TTFT) while
maintaining similar performance on VLM benchmarks compared to prior works.
Compared to LLaVa-OneVision at the highest resolution (1152times1152),
FastVLM achieves comparable performance on key benchmarks like SeedBench and
MMMU, using the same 0.5B LLM, but with 85times faster TTFT and a vision
encoder that is 3.4times smaller.

---

## 3. [AniDoc: Animation Creation Made Easier](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.14173)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.14173](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14173)

**Authors**: Yihao Meng, Hao Ouyang, Hanlin Wang, Qiuyu Wang, Wen Wang, Ka Leong Cheng, Zhiheng Liu, Yujun Shen, Huamin Qu

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Yihao Meng

**Upvotes**: 58

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yihao-meng/AniDoc) | [Project Page](https://yihao-meng.github.io/AniDoc_demo)

### Abstract

The production of 2D animation follows an industry-standard workflow,
encompassing four essential stages: character design, keyframe animation,
in-betweening, and coloring. Our research focuses on reducing the labor costs
in the above process by harnessing the potential of increasingly powerful
generative AI. Using video diffusion models as the foundation, AniDoc emerges
as a video line art colorization tool, which automatically converts sketch
sequences into colored animations following the reference character
specification. Our model exploits correspondence matching as an explicit
guidance, yielding strong robustness to the variations (e.g., posture) between
the reference character and each line art frame. In addition, our model could
even automate the in-betweening process, such that users can easily create a
temporally consistent animation by simply providing a character image as well
as the start and end sketches. Our code is available at:
https://yihao-meng.github.io/AniDoc_demo.

---

## 4. [TheAgentCompany: Benchmarking LLM Agents on Consequential Real World
  Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.14161)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.14161](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14161)

**Authors**: Frank F. Xu, Yufan Song, Boxuan Li, Yuxuan Tang, Kritanjali Jain, Mengxue Bao, Zora Z. Wang, Xuhui Zhou, Zhitong Guo, Murong Cao, Hao Yang Lu, Amaad Martin, Zhe Su, Leander Maben, Raj Mehta, Wayne Chi, Lawrence Jang, Yiqing Xie, Shuyan Zhou, Graham Neubig

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Xiang Yue

**Upvotes**: 51

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/TheAgentCompany/TheAgentCompany) | [Project Page](https://the-agent-company.com)

### Abstract

We interact with computers on an everyday basis, be it in everyday life or
work, and many aspects of work can be done entirely with access to a computer
and the Internet. At the same time, thanks to improvements in large language
models (LLMs), there has also been a rapid development in AI agents that
interact with and affect change in their surrounding environments. But how
performant are AI agents at helping to accelerate or even autonomously perform
work-related tasks? The answer to this question has important implications for
both industry looking to adopt AI into their workflows, and for economic policy
to understand the effects that adoption of AI may have on the labor market. To
measure the progress of these LLM agents' performance on performing real-world
professional tasks, in this paper, we introduce TheAgentCompany, an extensible
benchmark for evaluating AI agents that interact with the world in similar ways
to those of a digital worker: by browsing the Web, writing code, running
programs, and communicating with other coworkers. We build a self-contained
environment with internal web sites and data that mimics a small software
company environment, and create a variety of tasks that may be performed by
workers in such a company. We test baseline agents powered by both closed
API-based and open-weights language models (LMs), and find that with the most
competitive agent, 24% of the tasks can be completed autonomously. This paints
a nuanced picture on task automation with LM agents -- in a setting simulating
a real workplace, a good portion of simpler tasks could be solved autonomously,
but more difficult long-horizon tasks are still beyond the reach of current
systems.

---

## 5. [No More Adam: Learning Rate Scaling at Initialization is All You Need](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.11768)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.11768](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11768)

**Authors**: Minghao Xu, Lichuan Xiang, Xu Cai, Hongkai Wen

**Published**: 2024-12-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Lichuan

**Upvotes**: 43

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/anonymousalethiometer/sgd_sai)

### Abstract

In this work, we question the necessity of adaptive gradient methods for
training deep neural networks. SGD-SaI is a simple yet effective enhancement to
stochastic gradient descent with momentum (SGDM). SGD-SaI performs learning
rate Scaling at Initialization (SaI) to distinct parameter groups, guided by
their respective gradient signal-to-noise ratios (g-SNR). By adjusting learning
rates without relying on adaptive second-order momentum, SGD-SaI helps prevent
training imbalances from the very first iteration and cuts the optimizer's
memory usage by half compared to AdamW. Despite its simplicity and efficiency,
SGD-SaI consistently matches or outperforms AdamW in training a variety of
Transformer-based tasks, effectively overcoming a long-standing challenge of
using SGD for training Transformers. SGD-SaI excels in ImageNet-1K
classification with Vision Transformers(ViT) and GPT-2 pretraining for large
language models (LLMs, transformer decoder-only), demonstrating robustness to
hyperparameter variations and practicality for diverse applications. We further
tested its robustness on tasks like LoRA fine-tuning for LLMs and diffusion
models, where it consistently outperforms state-of-the-art optimizers. From a
memory efficiency perspective, SGD-SaI achieves substantial memory savings for
optimizer states, reducing memory usage by 5.93 GB for GPT-2 (1.5B parameters)
and 25.15 GB for Llama2-7B compared to AdamW in full-precision training
settings.

---

## 6. [GUI Agents: A Survey](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13501)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.13501](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13501)

**Authors**: Dang Nguyen, Jian Chen, Yu Wang, Gang Wu, Namyong Park, Zhengmian Hu, Hanjia Lyu, Junda Wu, Ryan Aponte, Yu Xia, Xintong Li, Jing Shi, Hongjie Chen, Viet Dac Lai, Zhouhang Xie, Sungchul Kim, Ruiyi Zhang, Tong Yu, Mehrab Tanjim, Nesreen K. Ahmed, Puneet Mathur, Seunghyun Yoon, Lina Yao, Branislav Kveton, Thien Huu Nguyen, Trung Bui, Tianyi Zhou, Ryan A. Rossi, Franck Dernoncourt

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Franck Dernoncourt

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

Graphical User Interface (GUI) agents, powered by Large Foundation Models,
have emerged as a transformative approach to automating human-computer
interaction. These agents autonomously interact with digital systems or
software applications via GUIs, emulating human actions such as clicking,
typing, and navigating visual elements across diverse platforms. Motivated by
the growing interest and fundamental importance of GUI agents, we provide a
comprehensive survey that categorizes their benchmarks, evaluation metrics,
architectures, and training methods. We propose a unified framework that
delineates their perception, reasoning, planning, and acting capabilities.
Furthermore, we identify important open challenges and discuss key future
directions. Finally, this work serves as a basis for practitioners and
researchers to gain an intuitive understanding of current progress, techniques,
benchmarks, and critical open problems that remain to be addressed.

---

## 7. [Thinking in Space: How Multimodal Large Language Models See, Remember,
  and Recall Spaces](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.14171)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.14171](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14171)

**Authors**: Jihan Yang, Shusheng Yang, Anjali W. Gupta, Rilyn Han, Li Fei-Fei, Saining Xie

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Shusheng Yang

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vision-x-nyu/thinking-in-space)

### Abstract

Humans possess the visual-spatial intelligence to remember spaces from
sequential visual observations. However, can Multimodal Large Language Models
(MLLMs) trained on million-scale video datasets also ``think in space'' from
videos? We present a novel video-based visual-spatial intelligence benchmark
(VSI-Bench) of over 5,000 question-answer pairs, and find that MLLMs exhibit
competitive - though subhuman - visual-spatial intelligence. We probe models to
express how they think in space both linguistically and visually and find that
while spatial reasoning capabilities remain the primary bottleneck for MLLMs to
reach higher benchmark performance, local world models and spatial awareness do
emerge within these models. Notably, prevailing linguistic reasoning techniques
(e.g., chain-of-thought, self-consistency, tree-of-thoughts) fail to improve
performance, whereas explicitly generating cognitive maps during
question-answering enhances MLLMs' spatial distance ability.

---

## 8. [Mix-LN: Unleashing the Power of Deeper Layers by Combining Pre-LN and
  Post-LN](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13795)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.13795](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13795)

**Authors**: Pengxiang Li, Lu Yin, Shiwei Liu

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Pengxiang Li

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pixeli99/mixln)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success, yet recent
findings reveal that their deeper layers often contribute minimally and can be
pruned without affecting overall performance. While some view this as an
opportunity for model compression, we identify it as a training shortfall
rooted in the widespread use of Pre-Layer Normalization (Pre-LN). We
demonstrate that Pre-LN, commonly employed in models like GPT and LLaMA, leads
to diminished gradient norms in its deeper layers, reducing their
effectiveness. In contrast, Post-Layer Normalization (Post-LN) preserves larger
gradient norms in deeper layers but suffers from vanishing gradients in earlier
layers. To address this, we introduce Mix-LN, a novel normalization technique
that combines the strengths of Pre-LN and Post-LN within the same model. Mix-LN
applies Post-LN to the earlier layers and Pre-LN to the deeper layers, ensuring
more uniform gradients across layers. This allows all parts of the
network--both shallow and deep layers--to contribute effectively to training.
Extensive experiments with various model sizes from 70M to 7B demonstrate that
Mix-LN consistently outperforms both Pre-LN and Post-LN, promoting more
balanced, healthier gradient norms throughout the network, and enhancing the
overall quality of LLM pre-training. Furthermore, we demonstrate that models
pre-trained with Mix-LN learn better compared to those using Pre-LN or Post-LN
during supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning from human
feedback (RLHF), highlighting the critical importance of high-quality deep
layers. By effectively addressing the inefficiencies of deep layers in current
LLMs, Mix-LN unlocks their potential, enhancing model capacity without
increasing model size. Our code is available at
https://github.com/pixeli99/MixLN.

---

## 9. [LLaVA-UHD v2: an MLLM Integrating High-Resolution Feature Pyramid via
  Hierarchical Window Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13871)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.13871](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13871)

**Authors**: Yipeng Zhang, Yifan Liu, Zonghao Guo, Yidan Zhang, Chi Chen, Jun Song, Bo Zheng, Yuan Yao, Zhiyuan Liu, Tat-Seng Chua, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Zonghao Guo

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thunlp/LLaVA-UHD)

### Abstract

In multimodal large language models (MLLMs), vision transformers (ViTs) are
widely employed for visual encoding. However, their performance in solving
universal MLLM tasks is not satisfactory. We attribute it to a lack of
information from diverse visual levels, impeding alignment with the various
semantic granularity required for language generation. To address this issue,
we present LLaVA-UHD v2, an advanced MLLM centered around a Hierarchical window
transformer that enables capturing diverse visual granularity by constructing
and integrating a high-resolution feature pyramid. As a vision-language
projector, Hiwin transformer comprises two primary modules: (i) an inverse
feature pyramid, constructed by a ViT-derived feature up-sampling process
utilizing high-frequency details from an image pyramid, and (ii) hierarchical
window attention, focusing on a set of key sampling features within cross-scale
windows to condense multi-level feature maps. Extensive experiments demonstrate
that LLaVA-UHD v2 achieves superior performance over existing MLLMs on popular
benchmarks. Notably, our design brings an average boost of 3.7% across 14
benchmarks compared with the baseline method, 9.3% on DocVQA for instance. We
make all the data, model checkpoint, and code publicly available to facilitate
future research.

---

## 10. [FashionComposer: Compositional Fashion Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.14168)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.14168](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14168)

**Authors**: Sihui Ji, Yiyang Wang, Xi Chen, Xiaogang Xu, Hao Luo, Hengshuang Zhao

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by xichen

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zjuer-huijun/FashionComposer) | [Project Page](https://sihuiji.github.io/FashionComposer-Page/)

### Abstract

We present FashionComposer for compositional fashion image generation. Unlike
previous methods, FashionComposer is highly flexible. It takes multi-modal
input (i.e., text prompt, parametric human model, garment image, and face
image) and supports personalizing the appearance, pose, and figure of the human
and assigning multiple garments in one pass. To achieve this, we first develop
a universal framework capable of handling diverse input modalities. We
construct scaled training data to enhance the model's robust compositional
capabilities. To accommodate multiple reference images (garments and faces)
seamlessly, we organize these references in a single image as an "asset
library" and employ a reference UNet to extract appearance features. To inject
the appearance features into the correct pixels in the generated result, we
propose subject-binding attention. It binds the appearance features from
different "assets" with the corresponding text features. In this way, the model
could understand each asset according to their semantics, supporting arbitrary
numbers and types of reference images. As a comprehensive solution,
FashionComposer also supports many other applications like human album
generation, diverse virtual try-on tasks, etc.

---

## 11. [Autoregressive Video Generation without Vector Quantization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.14169)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.14169](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14169)

**Authors**: Haoge Deng, Ting Pan, Haiwen Diao, Zhengxiong Luo, Yufeng Cui, Huchuan Lu, Shiguang Shan, Yonggang Qi, Xinlong Wang

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Haoge Deng

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/baaivision/nova)

### Abstract

This paper presents a novel approach that enables autoregressive video
generation with high efficiency. We propose to reformulate the video generation
problem as a non-quantized autoregressive modeling of temporal frame-by-frame
prediction and spatial set-by-set prediction. Unlike raster-scan prediction in
prior autoregressive models or joint distribution modeling of fixed-length
tokens in diffusion models, our approach maintains the causal property of
GPT-style models for flexible in-context capabilities, while leveraging
bidirectional modeling within individual frames for efficiency. With the
proposed approach, we train a novel video autoregressive model without vector
quantization, termed NOVA. Our results demonstrate that NOVA surpasses prior
autoregressive video models in data efficiency, inference speed, visual
fidelity, and video fluency, even with a much smaller model capacity, i.e.,
0.6B parameters. NOVA also outperforms state-of-the-art image diffusion models
in text-to-image generation tasks, with a significantly lower training cost.
Additionally, NOVA generalizes well across extended video durations and enables
diverse zero-shot applications in one unified model. Code and models are
publicly available at https://github.com/baaivision/NOVA.

---

## 12. [Prompting Depth Anything for 4K Resolution Accurate Metric Depth
  Estimation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.14015)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.14015](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14015)

**Authors**: Haotong Lin, Sida Peng, Jingxiao Chen, Songyou Peng, Jiaming Sun, Minghuan Liu, Hujun Bao, Jiashi Feng, Xiaowei Zhou, Bingyi Kang

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Bingyi Kang

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/DepthAnything/PromptDA)

### Abstract

Prompts play a critical role in unleashing the power of language and vision
foundation models for specific tasks. For the first time, we introduce
prompting into depth foundation models, creating a new paradigm for metric
depth estimation termed Prompt Depth Anything. Specifically, we use a low-cost
LiDAR as the prompt to guide the Depth Anything model for accurate metric depth
output, achieving up to 4K resolution. Our approach centers on a concise prompt
fusion design that integrates the LiDAR at multiple scales within the depth
decoder. To address training challenges posed by limited datasets containing
both LiDAR depth and precise GT depth, we propose a scalable data pipeline that
includes synthetic data LiDAR simulation and real data pseudo GT depth
generation. Our approach sets new state-of-the-arts on the ARKitScenes and
ScanNet++ datasets and benefits downstream applications, including 3D
reconstruction and generalized robotic grasping.

---

## 13. [AnySat: An Earth Observation Model for Any Resolutions, Scales, and
  Modalities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.14123)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.14123](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14123)

**Authors**: Guillaume Astruc, Nicolas Gonthier, Clement Mallet, Loic Landrieu

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Guillaume Astruc

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gastruc/anysat)

### Abstract

Geospatial models must adapt to the diversity of Earth observation data in
terms of resolutions, scales, and modalities. However, existing approaches
expect fixed input configurations, which limits their practical applicability.
We propose AnySat, a multimodal model based on joint embedding predictive
architecture (JEPA) and resolution-adaptive spatial encoders, allowing us to
train a single model on highly heterogeneous data in a self-supervised manner.
To demonstrate the advantages of this unified approach, we compile GeoPlex, a
collection of 5 multimodal datasets with varying characteristics and 11
distinct sensors. We then train a single powerful model on these diverse
datasets simultaneously. Once fine-tuned, we achieve better or near
state-of-the-art results on the datasets of GeoPlex and 4 additional ones for
5 environment monitoring tasks: land cover mapping, tree species
identification, crop type classification, change detection, and flood
segmentation. The code and models are available at
https://github.com/gastruc/AnySat.

---

## 14. [Efficient Diffusion Transformer Policies with Mixture of Expert
  Denoisers for Multitask Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.12953)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.12953](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12953)

**Authors**: Moritz Reuss, Jyothish Pari, Pulkit Agrawal, Rudolf Lioutikov

**Published**: 2024-12-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Moritz Reuss

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/intuitive-robots/MoDE_Diffusion_Policy)

### Abstract

Diffusion Policies have become widely used in Imitation Learning, offering
several appealing properties, such as generating multimodal and discontinuous
behavior. As models are becoming larger to capture more complex capabilities,
their computational demands increase, as shown by recent scaling laws.
Therefore, continuing with the current architectures will present a
computational roadblock. To address this gap, we propose Mixture-of-Denoising
Experts (MoDE) as a novel policy for Imitation Learning. MoDE surpasses current
state-of-the-art Transformer-based Diffusion Policies while enabling
parameter-efficient scaling through sparse experts and noise-conditioned
routing, reducing both active parameters by 40% and inference costs by 90% via
expert caching. Our architecture combines this efficient scaling with
noise-conditioned self-attention mechanism, enabling more effective denoising
across different noise levels. MoDE achieves state-of-the-art performance on
134 tasks in four established imitation learning benchmarks (CALVIN and
LIBERO). Notably, by pretraining MoDE on diverse robotics data, we achieve 4.01
on CALVIN ABC and 0.95 on LIBERO-90. It surpasses both CNN-based and
Transformer Diffusion Policies by an average of 57% across 4 benchmarks, while
using 90% fewer FLOPs and fewer active parameters compared to default Diffusion
Transformer architectures. Furthermore, we conduct comprehensive ablations on
MoDE's components, providing insights for designing efficient and scalable
Transformer architectures for Diffusion Policies. Code and demonstrations are
available at https://mbreuss.github.io/MoDE_Diffusion_Policy/.

---

## 15. [Learning from Massive Human Videos for Universal Humanoid Pose Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.14172)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.14172](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14172)

**Authors**: Jiageng Mao, Siheng Zhao, Siqi Song, Tianheng Shi, Junjie Ye, Mingtong Zhang, Haoran Geng, Jitendra Malik, Vitor Guizilini, Yue Wang

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Siheng Zhao

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Scalable learning of humanoid robots is crucial for their deployment in
real-world applications. While traditional approaches primarily rely on
reinforcement learning or teleoperation to achieve whole-body control, they are
often limited by the diversity of simulated environments and the high costs of
demonstration collection. In contrast, human videos are ubiquitous and present
an untapped source of semantic and motion information that could significantly
enhance the generalization capabilities of humanoid robots. This paper
introduces Humanoid-X, a large-scale dataset of over 20 million humanoid robot
poses with corresponding text-based motion descriptions, designed to leverage
this abundant data. Humanoid-X is curated through a comprehensive pipeline:
data mining from the Internet, video caption generation, motion retargeting of
humans to humanoid robots, and policy learning for real-world deployment. With
Humanoid-X, we further train a large humanoid model, UH-1, which takes text
instructions as input and outputs corresponding actions to control a humanoid
robot. Extensive simulated and real-world experiments validate that our
scalable training approach leads to superior generalization in text-based
humanoid control, marking a significant step toward adaptable, real-world-ready
humanoid robots.

---

## 16. [Alignment faking in large language models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.14093)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.14093](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14093)

**Authors**: Ryan Greenblatt, Carson Denison, Benjamin Wright, Fabien Roger, Monte MacDiarmid, Sam Marks, Johannes Treutlein, Tim Belonax, Jack Chen, David Duvenaud, Akbir Khan, Julian Michael, Sören Mindermann, Ethan Perez, Linda Petrini, Jonathan Uesato, Jared Kaplan, Buck Shlegeris, Samuel R. Bowman, Evan Hubinger

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/redwoodresearch/alignment_faking_public)

### Abstract

We present a demonstration of a large language model engaging in alignment
faking: selectively complying with its training objective in training to
prevent modification of its behavior out of training. First, we give Claude 3
Opus a system prompt stating it is being trained to answer all queries, even
harmful ones, which conflicts with its prior training to refuse such queries.
To allow the model to infer when it is in training, we say it will be trained
only on conversations with free users, not paid users. We find the model
complies with harmful queries from free users 14% of the time, versus almost
never for paid users. Explaining this gap, in almost all cases where the model
complies with a harmful query from a free user, we observe explicit
alignment-faking reasoning, with the model stating it is strategically
answering harmful queries in training to preserve its preferred harmlessness
behavior out of training. Next, we study a more realistic setting where
information about the training process is provided not in a system prompt, but
by training on synthetic documents that mimic pre-training data--and observe
similar alignment faking. Finally, we study the effect of actually training the
model to comply with harmful queries via reinforcement learning, which we find
increases the rate of alignment-faking reasoning to 78%, though also increases
compliance even out of training. We additionally observe other behaviors such
as the model exfiltrating its weights when given an easy opportunity. While we
made alignment faking easier by telling the model when and by what criteria it
was being trained, we did not instruct the model to fake alignment or give it
any explicit goal. As future models might infer information about their
training process without being told, our results suggest a risk of alignment
faking in future models, whether due to a benign preference--as in this
case--or not.

---

## 17. [RAG-RewardBench: Benchmarking Reward Models in Retrieval Augmented
  Generation for Preference Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13746)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.13746](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13746)

**Authors**: Zhuoran Jin, Hongbang Yuan, Tianyi Men, Pengfei Cao, Kang Liu, Jun Zhao

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Zhuoran Jin

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jinzhuoran/rag-rewardbench)

### Abstract

Despite the significant progress made by existing retrieval augmented
language models (RALMs) in providing trustworthy responses and grounding in
reliable sources, they often overlook effective alignment with human
preferences. In the alignment process, reward models (RMs) act as a crucial
proxy for human values to guide optimization. However, it remains unclear how
to evaluate and select a reliable RM for preference alignment in RALMs. To this
end, we propose RAG-RewardBench, the first benchmark for evaluating RMs in RAG
settings. First, we design four crucial and challenging RAG-specific scenarios
to assess RMs, including multi-hop reasoning, fine-grained citation,
appropriate abstain, and conflict robustness. Then, we incorporate 18 RAG
subsets, six retrievers, and 24 RALMs to increase the diversity of data
sources. Finally, we adopt an LLM-as-a-judge approach to improve preference
annotation efficiency and effectiveness, exhibiting a strong correlation with
human annotations. Based on the RAG-RewardBench, we conduct a comprehensive
evaluation of 45 RMs and uncover their limitations in RAG scenarios.
Additionally, we also reveal that existing trained RALMs show almost no
improvement in preference alignment, highlighting the need for a shift towards
preference-aligned training.We release our benchmark and code publicly at
https://huggingface.co/datasets/jinzhuoran/RAG-RewardBench/ for future work.

---

## 18. [VidTok: A Versatile and Open-Source Video Tokenizer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13061)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.13061](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13061)

**Authors**: Anni Tang, Tianyu He, Junliang Guo, Xinle Cheng, Li Song, Jiang Bian

**Published**: 2024-12-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Tianyu He

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Encoding video content into compact latent tokens has become a fundamental
step in video generation and understanding, driven by the need to address the
inherent redundancy in pixel-level representations. Consequently, there is a
growing demand for high-performance, open-source video tokenizers as
video-centric research gains prominence. We introduce VidTok, a versatile video
tokenizer that delivers state-of-the-art performance in both continuous and
discrete tokenizations. VidTok incorporates several key advancements over
existing approaches: 1) model architecture such as convolutional layers and
up/downsampling modules; 2) to address the training instability and codebook
collapse commonly associated with conventional Vector Quantization (VQ), we
integrate Finite Scalar Quantization (FSQ) into discrete video tokenization; 3)
improved training strategies, including a two-stage training process and the
use of reduced frame rates. By integrating these advancements, VidTok achieves
substantial improvements over existing methods, demonstrating superior
performance across multiple metrics, including PSNR, SSIM, LPIPS, and FVD,
under standardized evaluation settings.

---

## 19. [ChatDiT: A Training-Free Baseline for Task-Agnostic Free-Form Chatting
  with Diffusion Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.12571)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.12571](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12571)

**Authors**: Lianghua Huang, Wei Wang, Zhi-Fan Wu, Yupeng Shi, Chen Liang, Tong Shen, Han Zhang, Huanzhang Dou, Yu Liu, Jingren Zhou

**Published**: 2024-12-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Lianghua Huang

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ali-vilab/chatdit)

### Abstract

Recent research arXiv:2410.15027 arXiv:2410.23775 has highlighted the
inherent in-context generation capabilities of pretrained diffusion
transformers (DiTs), enabling them to seamlessly adapt to diverse visual tasks
with minimal or no architectural modifications. These capabilities are unlocked
by concatenating self-attention tokens across multiple input and target images,
combined with grouped and masked generation pipelines. Building upon this
foundation, we present ChatDiT, a zero-shot, general-purpose, and interactive
visual generation framework that leverages pretrained diffusion transformers in
their original form, requiring no additional tuning, adapters, or
modifications. Users can interact with ChatDiT to create interleaved text-image
articles, multi-page picture books, edit images, design IP derivatives, or
develop character design settings, all through free-form natural language
across one or more conversational rounds. At its core, ChatDiT employs a
multi-agent system comprising three key components: an Instruction-Parsing
agent that interprets user-uploaded images and instructions, a
Strategy-Planning agent that devises single-step or multi-step generation
actions, and an Execution agent that performs these actions using an in-context
toolkit of diffusion transformers. We thoroughly evaluate ChatDiT on IDEA-Bench
arXiv:2412.11767, comprising 100 real-world design tasks and 275 cases with
diverse instructions and varying numbers of input and target images. Despite
its simplicity and training-free approach, ChatDiT surpasses all competitors,
including those specifically designed and trained on extensive multi-task
datasets. We further identify key limitations of pretrained DiTs in zero-shot
adapting to tasks. We release all code, agents, results, and intermediate
outputs to facilitate further research at https://github.com/ali-vilab/ChatDiT

---

## 20. [CAD-Recode: Reverse Engineering CAD Code from Point Clouds](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.14042)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.14042](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14042)

**Authors**: Danila Rukhovich, Elona Dupont, Dimitrios Mallis, Kseniya Cherenkova, Anis Kacem, Djamila Aouada

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Danila Rukhovich

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/filaPro/cad-recode)

### Abstract

Computer-Aided Design (CAD) models are typically constructed by sequentially
drawing parametric sketches and applying CAD operations to obtain a 3D model.
The problem of 3D CAD reverse engineering consists of reconstructing the sketch
and CAD operation sequences from 3D representations such as point clouds. In
this paper, we address this challenge through novel contributions across three
levels: CAD sequence representation, network design, and dataset. In
particular, we represent CAD sketch-extrude sequences as Python code. The
proposed CAD-Recode translates a point cloud into Python code that, when
executed, reconstructs the CAD model. Taking advantage of the exposure of
pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) to Python code, we leverage a
relatively small LLM as a decoder for CAD-Recode and combine it with a
lightweight point cloud projector. CAD-Recode is trained solely on a proposed
synthetic dataset of one million diverse CAD sequences. CAD-Recode
significantly outperforms existing methods across three datasets while
requiring fewer input points. Notably, it achieves 10 times lower mean Chamfer
distance than state-of-the-art methods on DeepCAD and Fusion360 datasets.
Furthermore, we show that our CAD Python code output is interpretable by
off-the-shelf LLMs, enabling CAD editing and CAD-specific question answering
from point clouds.

---

## 21. [AntiLeak-Bench: Preventing Data Contamination by Automatically
  Constructing Benchmarks with Updated Real-World Knowledge](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13670)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.13670](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13670)

**Authors**: Xiaobao Wu, Liangming Pan, Yuxi Xie, Ruiwen Zhou, Shuai Zhao, Yubo Ma, Mingzhe Du, Rui Mao, Anh Tuan Luu, William Yang Wang

**Published**: 2024-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Xiaobao Wu

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bobxwu/AntiLeak-Bench)

### Abstract

Data contamination hinders fair LLM evaluation by introducing test data into
newer models' training sets. Existing studies solve this challenge by updating
benchmarks with newly collected data. However, they fail to guarantee
contamination-free evaluation as the newly collected data may contain
pre-existing knowledge, and their benchmark updates rely on intensive human
labor. To address these issues, we in this paper propose AntiLeak-Bench, an
automated anti-leakage benchmarking framework. Instead of simply using newly
collected data, we construct samples with explicitly new knowledge absent from
LLMs' training sets, which thus ensures strictly contamination-free evaluation.
We further design a fully automated workflow to build and update our benchmark
without human labor. This significantly reduces the cost of benchmark
maintenance to accommodate emerging LLMs. Through extensive experiments, we
highlight that data contamination likely exists before LLMs' cutoff time and
demonstrate AntiLeak-Bench effectively overcomes this challenge.

---

## 22. [Predicting the Original Appearance of Damaged Historical Documents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.11634)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.11634](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11634)

**Authors**: Zhenhua Yang, Dezhi Peng, Yongxin Shi, Yuyi Zhang, Chongyu Liu, Lianwen Jin

**Published**: 2024-12-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-19 by Zhenhua Yang

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yeungchenwa/hdr)

### Abstract

Historical documents encompass a wealth of cultural treasures but suffer from
severe damages including character missing, paper damage, and ink erosion over
time. However, existing document processing methods primarily focus on
binarization, enhancement, etc., neglecting the repair of these damages. To
this end, we present a new task, termed Historical Document Repair (HDR), which
aims to predict the original appearance of damaged historical documents. To
fill the gap in this field, we propose a large-scale dataset HDR28K and a
diffusion-based network DiffHDR for historical document repair. Specifically,
HDR28K contains 28,552 damaged-repaired image pairs with character-level
annotations and multi-style degradations. Moreover, DiffHDR augments the
vanilla diffusion framework with semantic and spatial information and a
meticulously designed character perceptual loss for contextual and visual
coherence. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed DiffHDR trained
using HDR28K significantly surpasses existing approaches and exhibits
remarkable performance in handling real damaged documents. Notably, DiffHDR can
also be extended to document editing and text block generation, showcasing its
high flexibility and generalization capacity. We believe this study could
pioneer a new direction of document processing and contribute to the
inheritance of invaluable cultures and civilizations. The dataset and code is
available at https://github.com/yeungchenwa/HDR.

---
