# Daily Papers - 2024-12-16

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-12-16)

Total papers: 18

---

## 1. [Apollo: An Exploration of Video Understanding in Large Multimodal Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.10360)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.10360](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10360)

**Authors**: Orr Zohar, Xiaohan Wang, Yann Dubois, Nikhil Mehta, Tong Xiao, Philippe Hansen-Estruch, Licheng Yu, Xiaofang Wang, Felix Juefei-Xu, Ning Zhang, Serena Yeung-Levy, Xide Xia

**Published**: 2024-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Orr Zohar

**Upvotes**: 147

### Abstract

Despite the rapid integration of video perception capabilities into Large
Multimodal Models (LMMs), the underlying mechanisms driving their video
understanding remain poorly understood. Consequently, many design decisions in
this domain are made without proper justification or analysis. The high
computational cost of training and evaluating such models, coupled with limited
open research, hinders the development of video-LMMs. To address this, we
present a comprehensive study that helps uncover what effectively drives video
understanding in LMMs.
  We begin by critically examining the primary contributors to the high
computational requirements associated with video-LMM research and discover
Scaling Consistency, wherein design and training decisions made on smaller
models and datasets (up to a critical size) effectively transfer to larger
models. Leveraging these insights, we explored many video-specific aspects of
video-LMMs, including video sampling, architectures, data composition, training
schedules, and more. For example, we demonstrated that fps sampling during
training is vastly preferable to uniform frame sampling and which vision
encoders are the best for video representation.
  Guided by these findings, we introduce Apollo, a state-of-the-art family of
LMMs that achieve superior performance across different model sizes. Our models
can perceive hour-long videos efficiently, with Apollo-3B outperforming most
existing 7B models with an impressive 55.1 on LongVideoBench. Apollo-7B is
state-of-the-art compared to 7B LMMs with a 70.9 on MLVU, and 63.3 on
Video-MME.

---

## 2. [GenEx: Generating an Explorable World](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.09624)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.09624](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09624)

**Authors**: Taiming Lu, Tianmin Shu, Junfei Xiao, Luoxin Ye, Jiahao Wang, Cheng Peng, Chen Wei, Daniel Khashabi, Rama Chellappa, Alan Yuille, Jieneng Chen

**Published**: 2024-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Jieneng Chen

**Upvotes**: 98

**Links**: [Project Page](https://www.genex.world/)

### Abstract

Understanding, navigating, and exploring the 3D physical real world has long
been a central challenge in the development of artificial intelligence. In this
work, we take a step toward this goal by introducing GenEx, a system capable of
planning complex embodied world exploration, guided by its generative
imagination that forms priors (expectations) about the surrounding
environments. GenEx generates an entire 3D-consistent imaginative environment
from as little as a single RGB image, bringing it to life through panoramic
video streams. Leveraging scalable 3D world data curated from Unreal Engine,
our generative model is rounded in the physical world. It captures a continuous
360-degree environment with little effort, offering a boundless landscape for
AI agents to explore and interact with. GenEx achieves high-quality world
generation, robust loop consistency over long trajectories, and demonstrates
strong 3D capabilities such as consistency and active 3D mapping. Powered by
generative imagination of the world, GPT-assisted agents are equipped to
perform complex embodied tasks, including both goal-agnostic exploration and
goal-driven navigation. These agents utilize predictive expectation regarding
unseen parts of the physical world to refine their beliefs, simulate different
outcomes based on potential decisions, and make more informed choices. In
summary, we demonstrate that GenEx provides a transformative platform for
advancing embodied AI in imaginative spaces and brings potential for extending
these capabilities to real-world exploration.

---

## 3. [SynerGen-VL: Towards Synergistic Image Understanding and Generation with
  Vision Experts and Token Folding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.09604)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.09604](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09604)

**Authors**: Hao Li, Changyao Tian, Jie Shao, Xizhou Zhu, Zhaokai Wang, Jinguo Zhu, Wenhan Dou, Xiaogang Wang, Hongsheng Li, Lewei Lu, Jifeng Dai

**Published**: 2024-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Zhaokai Wang

**Upvotes**: 38

### Abstract

The remarkable success of Large Language Models (LLMs) has extended to the
multimodal domain, achieving outstanding performance in image understanding and
generation. Recent efforts to develop unified Multimodal Large Language Models
(MLLMs) that integrate these capabilities have shown promising results.
However, existing approaches often involve complex designs in model
architecture or training pipeline, increasing the difficulty of model training
and scaling. In this paper, we propose SynerGen-VL, a simple yet powerful
encoder-free MLLM capable of both image understanding and generation. To
address challenges identified in existing encoder-free unified MLLMs, we
introduce the token folding mechanism and the vision-expert-based progressive
alignment pretraining strategy, which effectively support high-resolution image
understanding while reducing training complexity. After being trained on
large-scale mixed image-text data with a unified next-token prediction
objective, SynerGen-VL achieves or surpasses the performance of existing
encoder-free unified MLLMs with comparable or smaller parameter sizes, and
narrows the gap with task-specific state-of-the-art models, highlighting a
promising path toward future unified MLLMs. Our code and models shall be
released.

---

## 4. [Large Action Models: From Inception to Implementation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.10047)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.10047](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10047)

**Authors**: Lu Wang, Fangkai Yang, Chaoyun Zhang, Junting Lu, Jiaxu Qian, Shilin He, Pu Zhao, Bo Qiao, Ray Huang, Si Qin, Qisheng Su, Jiayi Ye, Yudi Zhang, Jian-Guang Lou, Qingwei Lin, Saravan Rajmohan, Dongmei Zhang, Qi Zhang

**Published**: 2024-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Chaoyun Zhang

**Upvotes**: 36

### Abstract

As AI continues to advance, there is a growing demand for systems that go
beyond language-based assistance and move toward intelligent agents capable of
performing real-world actions. This evolution requires the transition from
traditional Large Language Models (LLMs), which excel at generating textual
responses, to Large Action Models (LAMs), designed for action generation and
execution within dynamic environments. Enabled by agent systems, LAMs hold the
potential to transform AI from passive language understanding to active task
completion, marking a significant milestone in the progression toward
artificial general intelligence.
  In this paper, we present a comprehensive framework for developing LAMs,
offering a systematic approach to their creation, from inception to deployment.
We begin with an overview of LAMs, highlighting their unique characteristics
and delineating their differences from LLMs. Using a Windows OS-based agent as
a case study, we provide a detailed, step-by-step guide on the key stages of
LAM development, including data collection, model training, environment
integration, grounding, and evaluation. This generalizable workflow can serve
as a blueprint for creating functional LAMs in various application domains. We
conclude by identifying the current limitations of LAMs and discussing
directions for future research and industrial deployment, emphasizing the
challenges and opportunities that lie ahead in realizing the full potential of
LAMs in real-world applications.
  The code for the data collection process utilized in this paper is publicly
available at: https://github.com/microsoft/UFO/tree/main/dataflow, and
comprehensive documentation can be found at
https://microsoft.github.io/UFO/dataflow/overview/.

---

## 5. [BiMediX2: Bio-Medical EXpert LMM for Diverse Medical Modalities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07769)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07769](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07769)

**Authors**: Sahal Shaji Mullappilly, Mohammed Irfan Kurpath, Sara Pieri, Saeed Yahya Alseiari, Shanavas Cholakkal, Khaled Aldahmani, Fahad Khan, Rao Anwer, Salman Khan, Timothy Baldwin, Hisham Cholakkal

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Sahal Shaji

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/bimedix2)

### Abstract

This paper introduces BiMediX2, a bilingual (Arabic-English) Bio-Medical
EXpert Large Multimodal Model (LMM) with a unified architecture that integrates
text and visual modalities, enabling advanced image understanding and medical
applications. BiMediX2 leverages the Llama3.1 architecture and integrates text
and visual capabilities to facilitate seamless interactions in both English and
Arabic, supporting text-based inputs and multi-turn conversations involving
medical images. The model is trained on an extensive bilingual healthcare
dataset consisting of 1.6M samples of diverse medical interactions for both
text and image modalities, mixed in Arabic and English. We also propose the
first bilingual GPT-4o based medical LMM benchmark named BiMed-MBench. BiMediX2
is benchmarked on both text-based and image-based tasks, achieving
state-of-the-art performance across several medical benchmarks. It outperforms
recent state-of-the-art models in medical LLM evaluation benchmarks. Our model
also sets a new benchmark in multimodal medical evaluations with over 9%
improvement in English and over 20% in Arabic evaluations. Additionally, it
surpasses GPT-4 by around 9% in UPHILL factual accuracy evaluations and excels
in various medical Visual Question Answering, Report Generation, and Report
Summarization tasks. The project page including source code and the trained
model, is available at https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/BiMediX2.

---

## 6. [FreeScale: Unleashing the Resolution of Diffusion Models via Tuning-Free
  Scale Fusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.09626)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.09626](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09626)

**Authors**: Haonan Qiu, Shiwei Zhang, Yujie Wei, Ruihang Chu, Hangjie Yuan, Xiang Wang, Yingya Zhang, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2024-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Haonan Qiu

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ali-vilab/FreeScale) | [Project Page](http://haonanqiu.com/projects/FreeScale.html)

### Abstract

Visual diffusion models achieve remarkable progress, yet they are typically
trained at limited resolutions due to the lack of high-resolution data and
constrained computation resources, hampering their ability to generate
high-fidelity images or videos at higher resolutions. Recent efforts have
explored tuning-free strategies to exhibit the untapped potential
higher-resolution visual generation of pre-trained models. However, these
methods are still prone to producing low-quality visual content with repetitive
patterns. The key obstacle lies in the inevitable increase in high-frequency
information when the model generates visual content exceeding its training
resolution, leading to undesirable repetitive patterns deriving from the
accumulated errors. To tackle this challenge, we propose FreeScale, a
tuning-free inference paradigm to enable higher-resolution visual generation
via scale fusion. Specifically, FreeScale processes information from different
receptive scales and then fuses it by extracting desired frequency components.
Extensive experiments validate the superiority of our paradigm in extending the
capabilities of higher-resolution visual generation for both image and video
models. Notably, compared with the previous best-performing method, FreeScale
unlocks the generation of 8k-resolution images for the first time.

---

## 7. [Efficient Generative Modeling with Residual Vector Quantization-Based
  Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.10208)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.10208](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10208)

**Authors**: Jaehyeon Kim, Taehong Moon, Keon Lee, Jaewoong Cho

**Published**: 2024-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Jaehyeon Kim

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

We explore the use of Residual Vector Quantization (RVQ) for high-fidelity
generation in vector-quantized generative models. This quantization technique
maintains higher data fidelity by employing more in-depth tokens. However,
increasing the token number in generative models leads to slower inference
speeds. To this end, we introduce ResGen, an efficient RVQ-based discrete
diffusion model that generates high-fidelity samples without compromising
sampling speed. Our key idea is a direct prediction of vector embedding of
collective tokens rather than individual ones. Moreover, we demonstrate that
our proposed token masking and multi-token prediction method can be formulated
within a principled probabilistic framework using a discrete diffusion process
and variational inference. We validate the efficacy and generalizability of the
proposed method on two challenging tasks across different modalities:
conditional image generation} on ImageNet 256x256 and zero-shot text-to-speech
synthesis. Experimental results demonstrate that ResGen outperforms
autoregressive counterparts in both tasks, delivering superior performance
without compromising sampling speed. Furthermore, as we scale the depth of RVQ,
our generative models exhibit enhanced generation fidelity or faster sampling
speeds compared to similarly sized baseline models. The project page can be
found at https://resgen-genai.github.io

---

## 8. [InstanceCap: Improving Text-to-Video Generation via Instance-aware
  Structured Caption](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.09283)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.09283](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09283)

**Authors**: Tiehan Fan, Kepan Nan, Rui Xie, Penghao Zhou, Zhenheng Yang, Chaoyou Fu, Xiang Li, Jian Yang, Ying Tai

**Published**: 2024-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by tiehan fan

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Text-to-video generation has evolved rapidly in recent years, delivering
remarkable results. Training typically relies on video-caption paired data,
which plays a crucial role in enhancing generation performance. However,
current video captions often suffer from insufficient details, hallucinations
and imprecise motion depiction, affecting the fidelity and consistency of
generated videos. In this work, we propose a novel instance-aware structured
caption framework, termed InstanceCap, to achieve instance-level and
fine-grained video caption for the first time. Based on this scheme, we design
an auxiliary models cluster to convert original video into instances to enhance
instance fidelity. Video instances are further used to refine dense prompts
into structured phrases, achieving concise yet precise descriptions.
Furthermore, a 22K InstanceVid dataset is curated for training, and an
enhancement pipeline that tailored to InstanceCap structure is proposed for
inference. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed InstanceCap
significantly outperform previous models, ensuring high fidelity between
captions and videos while reducing hallucinations.

---

## 9. [ObjectMate: A Recurrence Prior for Object Insertion and Subject-Driven
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.08645)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.08645](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08645)

**Authors**: Daniel Winter, Asaf Shul, Matan Cohen, Dana Berman, Yael Pritch, Alex Rav-Acha, Yedid Hoshen

**Published**: 2024-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Yedid Hoshen

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [Project Page](https://object-mate.com)

### Abstract

This paper introduces a tuning-free method for both object insertion and
subject-driven generation. The task involves composing an object, given
multiple views, into a scene specified by either an image or text. Existing
methods struggle to fully meet the task's challenging objectives: (i)
seamlessly composing the object into the scene with photorealistic pose and
lighting, and (ii) preserving the object's identity. We hypothesize that
achieving these goals requires large scale supervision, but manually collecting
sufficient data is simply too expensive. The key observation in this paper is
that many mass-produced objects recur across multiple images of large unlabeled
datasets, in different scenes, poses, and lighting conditions. We use this
observation to create massive supervision by retrieving sets of diverse views
of the same object. This powerful paired dataset enables us to train a
straightforward text-to-image diffusion architecture to map the object and
scene descriptions to the composited image. We compare our method, ObjectMate,
with state-of-the-art methods for object insertion and subject-driven
generation, using a single or multiple references. Empirically, ObjectMate
achieves superior identity preservation and more photorealistic composition.
Differently from many other multi-reference methods, ObjectMate does not
require slow test-time tuning.

---

## 10. [SCBench: A KV Cache-Centric Analysis of Long-Context Methods](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.10319)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.10319](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10319)

**Authors**: Yucheng Li, Huiqiang Jiang, Qianhui Wu, Xufang Luo, Surin Ahn, Chengruidong Zhang, Amir H. Abdi, Dongsheng Li, Jianfeng Gao, Lili Qiu

**Published**: 2024-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Huiqiang Jiang

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Long-context LLMs have enabled numerous downstream applications but also
introduced significant challenges related to computational and memory
efficiency. To address these challenges, optimizations for long-context
inference have been developed, centered around the KV cache. However, existing
benchmarks often evaluate in single-request, neglecting the full lifecycle of
the KV cache in real-world use. This oversight is particularly critical, as KV
cache reuse has become widely adopted in LLMs inference frameworks, such as
vLLM and SGLang, as well as by LLM providers, including OpenAI, Microsoft,
Google, and Anthropic. To address this gap, we introduce
SCBench(SharedContextBench), a comprehensive benchmark for evaluating
long-context methods from a KV cachecentric perspective: 1) KV cache
generation, 2) KV cache compression, 3) KV cache retrieval, 4) KV cache
loading. Specifically, SCBench uses test examples with shared context, ranging
12 tasks with two shared context modes, covering four categories of
long-context capabilities: string retrieval, semantic retrieval, global
information, and multi-task. With it, we provide an extensive KV cache-centric
analysis of eight categories long-context solutions, including Gated Linear
RNNs, Mamba-Attention hybrids, and efficient methods such as sparse attention,
KV cache dropping, quantization, retrieval, loading, and prompt compression.
The evaluation is conducted on 8 long-context LLMs. Our findings show that
sub-O(n) memory methods suffer in multi-turn scenarios, while sparse encoding
with O(n) memory and sub-O(n^2) pre-filling computation perform robustly.
Dynamic sparsity yields more expressive KV caches than static patterns, and
layer-level sparsity in hybrid architectures reduces memory usage with strong
performance. Additionally, we identify attention distribution shift issues in
long-generation scenarios. https://aka.ms/SCBench.

---

## 11. [LinGen: Towards High-Resolution Minute-Length Text-to-Video Generation
  with Linear Computational Complexity](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.09856)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.09856](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09856)

**Authors**: Hongjie Wang, Chih-Yao Ma, Yen-Cheng Liu, Ji Hou, Tao Xu, Jialiang Wang, Felix Juefei-Xu, Yaqiao Luo, Peizhao Zhang, Tingbo Hou, Peter Vajda, Niraj K. Jha, Xiaoliang Dai

**Published**: 2024-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Hongjie Wang

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [Project Page](https://lineargen.github.io/)

### Abstract

Text-to-video generation enhances content creation but is highly
computationally intensive: The computational cost of Diffusion Transformers
(DiTs) scales quadratically in the number of pixels. This makes minute-length
video generation extremely expensive, limiting most existing models to
generating videos of only 10-20 seconds length. We propose a Linear-complexity
text-to-video Generation (LinGen) framework whose cost scales linearly in the
number of pixels. For the first time, LinGen enables high-resolution
minute-length video generation on a single GPU without compromising quality. It
replaces the computationally-dominant and quadratic-complexity block,
self-attention, with a linear-complexity block called MATE, which consists of
an MA-branch and a TE-branch. The MA-branch targets short-to-long-range
correlations, combining a bidirectional Mamba2 block with our token
rearrangement method, Rotary Major Scan, and our review tokens developed for
long video generation. The TE-branch is a novel TEmporal Swin Attention block
that focuses on temporal correlations between adjacent tokens and medium-range
tokens. The MATE block addresses the adjacency preservation issue of Mamba and
improves the consistency of generated videos significantly. Experimental
results show that LinGen outperforms DiT (with a 75.6% win rate) in video
quality with up to 15times (11.5times) FLOPs (latency) reduction.
Furthermore, both automatic metrics and human evaluation demonstrate our
LinGen-4B yields comparable video quality to state-of-the-art models (with a
50.5%, 52.1%, 49.1% win rate with respect to Gen-3, LumaLabs, and Kling,
respectively). This paves the way to hour-length movie generation and real-time
interactive video generation. We provide 68s video generation results and more
examples in our project website: https://lineargen.github.io/.

---

## 12. [FluxSpace: Disentangled Semantic Editing in Rectified Flow Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.09611)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.09611](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09611)

**Authors**: Yusuf Dalva, Kavana Venkatesh, Pinar Yanardag

**Published**: 2024-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Yusuf Dalva

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [Project Page](https://fluxspace.github.io/)

### Abstract

Rectified flow models have emerged as a dominant approach in image
generation, showcasing impressive capabilities in high-quality image synthesis.
However, despite their effectiveness in visual generation, rectified flow
models often struggle with disentangled editing of images. This limitation
prevents the ability to perform precise, attribute-specific modifications
without affecting unrelated aspects of the image. In this paper, we introduce
FluxSpace, a domain-agnostic image editing method leveraging a representation
space with the ability to control the semantics of images generated by
rectified flow transformers, such as Flux. By leveraging the representations
learned by the transformer blocks within the rectified flow models, we propose
a set of semantically interpretable representations that enable a wide range of
image editing tasks, from fine-grained image editing to artistic creation. This
work offers a scalable and effective image editing approach, along with its
disentanglement capabilities.

---

## 13. [FireFlow: Fast Inversion of Rectified Flow for Image Semantic Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.07517)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.07517](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07517)

**Authors**: Yingying Deng, Xiangyu He, Changwang Mei, Peisong Wang, Fan Tang

**Published**: 2024-12-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Xiangyu He

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/holmesshuan/fireflow)

### Abstract

Though Rectified Flows (ReFlows) with distillation offers a promising way for
fast sampling, its fast inversion transforms images back to structured noise
for recovery and following editing remains unsolved. This paper introduces
FireFlow, a simple yet effective zero-shot approach that inherits the startling
capacity of ReFlow-based models (such as FLUX) in generation while extending
its capabilities to accurate inversion and editing in 8 steps. We first
demonstrate that a carefully designed numerical solver is pivotal for ReFlow
inversion, enabling accurate inversion and reconstruction with the precision of
a second-order solver while maintaining the practical efficiency of a
first-order Euler method. This solver achieves a 3times runtime speedup
compared to state-of-the-art ReFlow inversion and editing techniques, while
delivering smaller reconstruction errors and superior editing results in a
training-free mode. The code is available at
https://github.com/HolmesShuan/FireFlow{this URL}.

---

## 14. [Multimodal Music Generation with Explicit Bridges and Retrieval
  Augmentation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.09428)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.09428](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09428)

**Authors**: Baisen Wang, Le Zhuo, Zhaokai Wang, Chenxi Bao, Wu Chengjing, Xuecheng Nie, Jiao Dai, Jizhong Han, Yue Liao, Si Liu

**Published**: 2024-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Le Zhuo

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wbs2788/vmb)

### Abstract

Multimodal music generation aims to produce music from diverse input
modalities, including text, videos, and images. Existing methods use a common
embedding space for multimodal fusion. Despite their effectiveness in other
modalities, their application in multimodal music generation faces challenges
of data scarcity, weak cross-modal alignment, and limited controllability. This
paper addresses these issues by using explicit bridges of text and music for
multimodal alignment. We introduce a novel method named Visuals Music Bridge
(VMB). Specifically, a Multimodal Music Description Model converts visual
inputs into detailed textual descriptions to provide the text bridge; a
Dual-track Music Retrieval module that combines broad and targeted retrieval
strategies to provide the music bridge and enable user control. Finally, we
design an Explicitly Conditioned Music Generation framework to generate music
based on the two bridges. We conduct experiments on video-to-music,
image-to-music, text-to-music, and controllable music generation tasks, along
with experiments on controllability. The results demonstrate that VMB
significantly enhances music quality, modality, and customization alignment
compared to previous methods. VMB sets a new standard for interpretable and
expressive multimodal music generation with applications in various multimedia
fields. Demos and code are available at https://github.com/wbs2788/VMB.

---

## 15. [GReaTer: Gradients over Reasoning Makes Smaller Language Models Strong
  Prompt Optimizers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.09722)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.09722](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09722)

**Authors**: Sarkar Snigdha Sarathi Das, Ryo Kamoi, Bo Pang, Yusen Zhang, Caiming Xiong, Rui Zhang

**Published**: 2024-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Sarkar Snigdha Sarathi Das

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/psunlpgroup/greater)

### Abstract

The effectiveness of large language models (LLMs) is closely tied to the
design of prompts, making prompt optimization essential for enhancing their
performance across a wide range of tasks. Many existing approaches to
automating prompt engineering rely exclusively on textual feedback, refining
prompts based solely on inference errors identified by large, computationally
expensive LLMs. Unfortunately, smaller models struggle to generate high-quality
feedback, resulting in complete dependence on large LLM judgment. Moreover,
these methods fail to leverage more direct and finer-grained information, such
as gradients, due to operating purely in text space. To this end, we introduce
GReaTer, a novel prompt optimization technique that directly incorporates
gradient information over task-specific reasoning. By utilizing task loss
gradients, GReaTer enables self-optimization of prompts for open-source,
lightweight language models without the need for costly closed-source LLMs.
This allows high-performance prompt optimization without dependence on massive
LLMs, closing the gap between smaller models and the sophisticated reasoning
often needed for prompt refinement. Extensive evaluations across diverse
reasoning tasks including BBH, GSM8k, and FOLIO demonstrate that GReaTer
consistently outperforms previous state-of-the-art prompt optimization methods,
even those reliant on powerful LLMs. Additionally, GReaTer-optimized prompts
frequently exhibit better transferability and, in some cases, boost task
performance to levels comparable to or surpassing those achieved by larger
language models, highlighting the effectiveness of prompt optimization guided
by gradients over reasoning. Code of GReaTer is available at
https://github.com/psunlpgroup/GreaTer.

---

## 16. [SmolTulu: Higher Learning Rate to Batch Size Ratios Can Lead to Better
  Reasoning in SLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.08347)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.08347](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08347)

**Authors**: Sultan Alrashed

**Published**: 2024-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Sultan Alrashed

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

We present SmolTulu-1.7b-Instruct, referenced in this report as
SmolTulu-DPO-1130, an instruction-tuned language model that adapts AllenAI's
Tulu 3 post-training pipeline to enhance Huggingface's SmolLM2-1.7B base model.
Through comprehensive empirical analysis using a 135M parameter model, we
demonstrate that the relationship between learning rate and batch size
significantly impacts model performance in a task-dependent manner. Our
findings reveal a clear split: reasoning tasks like ARC and GSM8K benefit from
higher learning rate to batch size ratios, while pattern recognition tasks such
as HellaSwag and IFEval show optimal performance with lower ratios. These
insights informed the development of SmolTulu, which achieves state-of-the-art
performance among sub-2B parameter models on instruction following, scoring
67.7% on IFEval (Delta11%), and mathematical reasoning with 51.6% on GSM8K
(Delta3.4%), with an alternate version achieving scoring 57.1% on ARC
(Delta5.4%). We release our model, training recipes, and ablation studies to
facilitate further research in efficient model alignment, demonstrating that
careful adaptation of optimization dynamics can help bridge the capability gap
between small and large language models.

---

## 17. [TraceVLA: Visual Trace Prompting Enhances Spatial-Temporal Awareness for
  Generalist Robotic Policies](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.10345)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.10345](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10345)

**Authors**: Ruijie Zheng, Yongyuan Liang, Shuaiyi Huang, Jianfeng Gao, Hal Daumé III, Andrey Kolobov, Furong Huang, Jianwei Yang

**Published**: 2024-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Ruijie Zheng

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Although large vision-language-action (VLA) models pretrained on extensive
robot datasets offer promising generalist policies for robotic learning, they
still struggle with spatial-temporal dynamics in interactive robotics, making
them less effective in handling complex tasks, such as manipulation. In this
work, we introduce visual trace prompting, a simple yet effective approach to
facilitate VLA models' spatial-temporal awareness for action prediction by
encoding state-action trajectories visually. We develop a new TraceVLA model by
finetuning OpenVLA on our own collected dataset of 150K robot manipulation
trajectories using visual trace prompting. Evaluations of TraceVLA across 137
configurations in SimplerEnv and 4 tasks on a physical WidowX robot demonstrate
state-of-the-art performance, outperforming OpenVLA by 10% on SimplerEnv and
3.5x on real-robot tasks and exhibiting robust generalization across diverse
embodiments and scenarios. To further validate the effectiveness and generality
of our method, we present a compact VLA model based on 4B Phi-3-Vision,
pretrained on the Open-X-Embodiment and finetuned on our dataset, rivals the 7B
OpenVLA baseline while significantly improving inference efficiency.

---

## 18. [Prompt2Perturb (P2P): Text-Guided Diffusion-Based Adversarial Attacks on
  Breast Ultrasound Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.09910)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.09910](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09910)

**Authors**: Yasamin Medghalchi, Moein Heidari, Clayton Allard, Leonid Sigal, Ilker Hacihaliloglu

**Published**: 2024-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-16 by Moein Heidari

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yasamin-med/p2p)

### Abstract

Deep neural networks (DNNs) offer significant promise for improving breast
cancer diagnosis in medical imaging. However, these models are highly
susceptible to adversarial attacks--small, imperceptible changes that can
mislead classifiers--raising critical concerns about their reliability and
security. Traditional attacks rely on fixed-norm perturbations, misaligning
with human perception. In contrast, diffusion-based attacks require pre-trained
models, demanding substantial data when these models are unavailable, limiting
practical use in data-scarce scenarios. In medical imaging, however, this is
often unfeasible due to the limited availability of datasets. Building on
recent advancements in learnable prompts, we propose Prompt2Perturb (P2P), a
novel language-guided attack method capable of generating meaningful attack
examples driven by text instructions. During the prompt learning phase, our
approach leverages learnable prompts within the text encoder to create subtle,
yet impactful, perturbations that remain imperceptible while guiding the model
towards targeted outcomes. In contrast to current prompt learning-based
approaches, our P2P stands out by directly updating text embeddings, avoiding
the need for retraining diffusion models. Further, we leverage the finding that
optimizing only the early reverse diffusion steps boosts efficiency while
ensuring that the generated adversarial examples incorporate subtle noise, thus
preserving ultrasound image quality without introducing noticeable artifacts.
We show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art attack techniques across
three breast ultrasound datasets in FID and LPIPS. Moreover, the generated
images are both more natural in appearance and more effective compared to
existing adversarial attacks. Our code will be publicly available
https://github.com/yasamin-med/P2P.

---
