# Daily Papers - 2024-12-06

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-12-06)

Total papers: 31

---

## 1. [VisionZip: Longer is Better but Not Necessary in Vision Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04467)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04467](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04467)

**Authors**: Senqiao Yang, Yukang Chen, Zhuotao Tian, Chengyao Wang, Jingyao Li, Bei Yu, Jiaya Jia

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Senqiao Yang

**Upvotes**: 118

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dvlab-research/visionzip)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in vision-language models have enhanced performance by
increasing the length of visual tokens, making them much longer than text
tokens and significantly raising computational costs. However, we observe that
the visual tokens generated by popular vision encoders, such as CLIP and
SigLIP, contain significant redundancy. To address this, we introduce
VisionZip, a simple yet effective method that selects a set of informative
tokens for input to the language model, reducing visual token redundancy and
improving efficiency while maintaining model performance. The proposed
VisionZip can be widely applied to image and video understanding tasks and is
well-suited for multi-turn dialogues in real-world scenarios, where previous
methods tend to underperform. Experimental results show that VisionZip
outperforms the previous state-of-the-art method by at least 5% performance
gains across nearly all settings. Moreover, our method significantly enhances
model inference speed, improving the prefilling time by 8x and enabling the
LLaVA-Next 13B model to infer faster than the LLaVA-Next 7B model while
achieving better results. Furthermore, we analyze the causes of this redundancy
and encourage the community to focus on extracting better visual features
rather than merely increasing token length. Our code is available at
https://github.com/dvlab-research/VisionZip .

---

## 2. [Structured 3D Latents for Scalable and Versatile 3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.01506)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.01506](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01506)

**Authors**: Jianfeng Xiang, Zelong Lv, Sicheng Xu, Yu Deng, Ruicheng Wang, Bowen Zhang, Dong Chen, Xin Tong, Jiaolong Yang

**Published**: 2024-12-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Jianfeng Xiang

**Upvotes**: 88

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/TRELLIS)

### Abstract

We introduce a novel 3D generation method for versatile and high-quality 3D
asset creation. The cornerstone is a unified Structured LATent (SLAT)
representation which allows decoding to different output formats, such as
Radiance Fields, 3D Gaussians, and meshes. This is achieved by integrating a
sparsely-populated 3D grid with dense multiview visual features extracted from
a powerful vision foundation model, comprehensively capturing both structural
(geometry) and textural (appearance) information while maintaining flexibility
during decoding. We employ rectified flow transformers tailored for SLAT as our
3D generation models and train models with up to 2 billion parameters on a
large 3D asset dataset of 500K diverse objects. Our model generates
high-quality results with text or image conditions, significantly surpassing
existing methods, including recent ones at similar scales. We showcase flexible
output format selection and local 3D editing capabilities which were not
offered by previous models. Code, model, and data will be released.

---

## 3. [Aguvis: Unified Pure Vision Agents for Autonomous GUI Interaction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04454)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04454](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04454)

**Authors**: Yiheng Xu, Zekun Wang, Junli Wang, Dunjie Lu, Tianbao Xie, Amrita Saha, Doyen Sahoo, Tao Yu, Caiming Xiong

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Yiheng Xu

**Upvotes**: 71

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xlang-ai/aguvis) | [Project Page](https://aguvis-project.github.io/)

### Abstract

Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) are critical to human-computer interaction,
yet automating GUI tasks remains challenging due to the complexity and
variability of visual environments. Existing approaches often rely on textual
representations of GUIs, which introduce limitations in generalization,
efficiency, and scalability. In this paper, we introduce Aguvis, a unified pure
vision-based framework for autonomous GUI agents that operates across various
platforms. Our approach leverages image-based observations, and grounding
instructions in natural language to visual elements, and employs a consistent
action space to ensure cross-platform generalization. To address the
limitations of previous work, we integrate explicit planning and reasoning
within the model, enhancing its ability to autonomously navigate and interact
with complex digital environments. We construct a large-scale dataset of GUI
agent trajectories, incorporating multimodal reasoning and grounding, and
employ a two-stage training pipeline that first focuses on general GUI
grounding, followed by planning and reasoning. Through comprehensive
experiments, we demonstrate that Aguvis surpasses previous state-of-the-art
methods in both offline and real-world online scenarios, achieving, to our
knowledge, the first fully autonomous pure vision GUI agent capable of
performing tasks independently without collaboration with external
closed-source models. We open-sourced all datasets, models, and training
recipes to facilitate future research at https://aguvis-project.github.io/.

---

## 4. [Florence-VL: Enhancing Vision-Language Models with Generative Vision
  Encoder and Depth-Breadth Fusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04424)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04424](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04424)

**Authors**: Jiuhai Chen, Jianwei Yang, Haiping Wu, Dianqi Li, Jianfeng Gao, Tianyi Zhou, Bin Xiao

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by JiuhaiChen

**Upvotes**: 62

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/JiuhaiChen/CVPR2025-Florence-VL)

### Abstract

We present Florence-VL, a new family of multimodal large language models
(MLLMs) with enriched visual representations produced by Florence-2, a
generative vision foundation model. Unlike the widely used CLIP-style vision
transformer trained by contrastive learning, Florence-2 can capture different
levels and aspects of visual features, which are more versatile to be adapted
to diverse downstream tasks. We propose a novel feature-fusion architecture and
an innovative training recipe that effectively integrates Florence-2's visual
features into pretrained LLMs, such as Phi 3.5 and LLama 3. In particular, we
propose "depth-breath fusion (DBFusion)" to fuse the visual features extracted
from different depths and under multiple prompts. Our model training is
composed of end-to-end pretraining of the whole model followed by finetuning of
the projection layer and the LLM, on a carefully designed recipe of diverse
open-source datasets that include high-quality image captions and
instruction-tuning pairs. Our quantitative analysis and visualization of
Florence-VL's visual features show its advantages over popular vision encoders
on vision-language alignment, where the enriched depth and breath play
important roles. Florence-VL achieves significant improvements over existing
state-of-the-art MLLMs across various multi-modal and vision-centric benchmarks
covering general VQA, perception, hallucination, OCR, Chart,
knowledge-intensive understanding, etc. To facilitate future research, our
models and the complete training recipe are open-sourced.
https://github.com/JiuhaiChen/Florence-VL

---

## 5. [NVILA: Efficient Frontier Visual Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04468)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04468](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04468)

**Authors**: Zhijian Liu, Ligeng Zhu, Baifeng Shi, Zhuoyang Zhang, Yuming Lou, Shang Yang, Haocheng Xi, Shiyi Cao, Yuxian Gu, Dacheng Li, Xiuyu Li, Yunhao Fang, Yukang Chen, Cheng-Yu Hsieh, De-An Huang, An-Chieh Cheng, Vishwesh Nath, Jinyi Hu, Sifei Liu, Ranjay Krishna, Daguang Xu, Xiaolong Wang, Pavlo Molchanov, Jan Kautz, Hongxu Yin, Song Han, Yao Lu

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Zhijian Liu

**Upvotes**: 60

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NVlabs/VILA) | [Project Page](https://nvlabs.github.io/VILA/)

### Abstract

Visual language models (VLMs) have made significant advances in accuracy in
recent years. However, their efficiency has received much less attention. This
paper introduces NVILA, a family of open VLMs designed to optimize both
efficiency and accuracy. Building on top of VILA, we improve its model
architecture by first scaling up the spatial and temporal resolutions, and then
compressing visual tokens. This "scale-then-compress" approach enables NVILA to
efficiently process high-resolution images and long videos. We also conduct a
systematic investigation to enhance the efficiency of NVILA throughout its
entire lifecycle, from training and fine-tuning to deployment. NVILA matches or
surpasses the accuracy of many leading open and proprietary VLMs across a wide
range of image and video benchmarks. At the same time, it reduces training
costs by 4.5X, fine-tuning memory usage by 3.4X, pre-filling latency by
1.6-2.2X, and decoding latency by 1.2-2.8X. We will soon make our code and
models available to facilitate reproducibility.

---

## 6. [Evaluating Language Models as Synthetic Data Generators](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.03679)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.03679](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03679)

**Authors**: Seungone Kim, Juyoung Suk, Xiang Yue, Vijay Viswanathan, Seongyun Lee, Yizhong Wang, Kiril Gashteovski, Carolin Lawrence, Sean Welleck, Graham Neubig

**Published**: 2024-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Seungone Kim

**Upvotes**: 47

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/neulab/data-agora)

### Abstract

Given the increasing use of synthetic data in language model (LM)
post-training, an LM's ability to generate high-quality data has become nearly
as crucial as its ability to solve problems directly. While prior works have
focused on developing effective data generation methods, they lack systematic
comparison of different LMs as data generators in a unified setting. To address
this gap, we propose AgoraBench, a benchmark that provides standardized
settings and metrics to evaluate LMs' data generation abilities. Through
synthesizing 1.26 million training instances using 6 LMs and training 99
student models, we uncover key insights about LMs' data generation
capabilities. First, we observe that LMs exhibit distinct strengths. For
instance, GPT-4o excels at generating new problems, while Claude-3.5-Sonnet
performs better at enhancing existing ones. Furthermore, our analysis reveals
that an LM's data generation ability doesn't necessarily correlate with its
problem-solving ability. Instead, multiple intrinsic features of data
quality-including response quality, perplexity, and instruction
difficulty-collectively serve as better indicators. Finally, we demonstrate
that strategic choices in output format and cost-conscious model selection
significantly impact data generation effectiveness.

---

## 7. [Code-as-Monitor: Constraint-aware Visual Programming for Reactive and
  Proactive Robotic Failure Detection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04455)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04455](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04455)

**Authors**: Enshen Zhou, Qi Su, Cheng Chi, Zhizheng Zhang, Zhongyuan Wang, Tiejun Huang, Lu Sheng, He Wang

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Zhoues

**Upvotes**: 38

### Abstract

Automatic detection and prevention of open-set failures are crucial in
closed-loop robotic systems. Recent studies often struggle to simultaneously
identify unexpected failures reactively after they occur and prevent
foreseeable ones proactively. To this end, we propose Code-as-Monitor (CaM), a
novel paradigm leveraging the vision-language model (VLM) for both open-set
reactive and proactive failure detection. The core of our method is to
formulate both tasks as a unified set of spatio-temporal constraint
satisfaction problems and use VLM-generated code to evaluate them for real-time
monitoring. To enhance the accuracy and efficiency of monitoring, we further
introduce constraint elements that abstract constraint-related entities or
their parts into compact geometric elements. This approach offers greater
generality, simplifies tracking, and facilitates constraint-aware visual
programming by leveraging these elements as visual prompts. Experiments show
that CaM achieves a 28.7% higher success rate and reduces execution time by
31.8% under severe disturbances compared to baselines across three simulators
and a real-world setting. Moreover, CaM can be integrated with open-loop
control policies to form closed-loop systems, enabling long-horizon tasks in
cluttered scenes with dynamic environments.

---

## 8. [A Noise is Worth Diffusion Guidance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.03895)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.03895](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03895)

**Authors**: Donghoon Ahn, Jiwon Kang, Sanghyun Lee, Jaewon Min, Minjae Kim, Wooseok Jang, Hyoungwon Cho, Sayak Paul, SeonHwa Kim, Eunju Cha, Kyong Hwan Jin, Seungryong Kim

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by AHN DONGHOON

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

Diffusion models excel in generating high-quality images. However, current
diffusion models struggle to produce reliable images without guidance methods,
such as classifier-free guidance (CFG). Are guidance methods truly necessary?
Observing that noise obtained via diffusion inversion can reconstruct
high-quality images without guidance, we focus on the initial noise of the
denoising pipeline. By mapping Gaussian noise to `guidance-free noise', we
uncover that small low-magnitude low-frequency components significantly enhance
the denoising process, removing the need for guidance and thus improving both
inference throughput and memory. Expanding on this, we propose \ours, a novel
method that replaces guidance methods with a single refinement of the initial
noise. This refined noise enables high-quality image generation without
guidance, within the same diffusion pipeline. Our noise-refining model
leverages efficient noise-space learning, achieving rapid convergence and
strong performance with just 50K text-image pairs. We validate its
effectiveness across diverse metrics and analyze how refined noise can
eliminate the need for guidance. See our project page:
https://cvlab-kaist.github.io/NoiseRefine/.

---

## 9. [MV-Adapter: Multi-view Consistent Image Generation Made Easy](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.03632)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.03632](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03632)

**Authors**: Zehuan Huang, Yuan-Chen Guo, Haoran Wang, Ran Yi, Lizhuang Ma, Yan-Pei Cao, Lu Sheng

**Published**: 2024-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by zehuan-huang

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/huanngzh/MV-Adapter) | [Project Page](https://huanngzh.github.io/MV-Adapter-Page/)

### Abstract

Existing multi-view image generation methods often make invasive
modifications to pre-trained text-to-image (T2I) models and require full
fine-tuning, leading to (1) high computational costs, especially with large
base models and high-resolution images, and (2) degradation in image quality
due to optimization difficulties and scarce high-quality 3D data. In this
paper, we propose the first adapter-based solution for multi-view image
generation, and introduce MV-Adapter, a versatile plug-and-play adapter that
enhances T2I models and their derivatives without altering the original network
structure or feature space. By updating fewer parameters, MV-Adapter enables
efficient training and preserves the prior knowledge embedded in pre-trained
models, mitigating overfitting risks. To efficiently model the 3D geometric
knowledge within the adapter, we introduce innovative designs that include
duplicated self-attention layers and parallel attention architecture, enabling
the adapter to inherit the powerful priors of the pre-trained models to model
the novel 3D knowledge. Moreover, we present a unified condition encoder that
seamlessly integrates camera parameters and geometric information, facilitating
applications such as text- and image-based 3D generation and texturing.
MV-Adapter achieves multi-view generation at 768 resolution on Stable Diffusion
XL (SDXL), and demonstrates adaptability and versatility. It can also be
extended to arbitrary view generation, enabling broader applications. We
demonstrate that MV-Adapter sets a new quality standard for multi-view image
generation, and opens up new possibilities due to its efficiency, adaptability
and versatility.

---

## 10. [AnyDressing: Customizable Multi-Garment Virtual Dressing via Latent
  Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04146)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04146](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04146)

**Authors**: Xinghui Li, Qichao Sun, Pengze Zhang, Fulong Ye, Zhichao Liao, Wanquan Feng, Songtao Zhao, Qian He

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Xinghui Li

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Recent advances in garment-centric image generation from text and image
prompts based on diffusion models are impressive. However, existing methods
lack support for various combinations of attire, and struggle to preserve the
garment details while maintaining faithfulness to the text prompts, limiting
their performance across diverse scenarios. In this paper, we focus on a new
task, i.e., Multi-Garment Virtual Dressing, and we propose a novel AnyDressing
method for customizing characters conditioned on any combination of garments
and any personalized text prompts. AnyDressing comprises two primary networks
named GarmentsNet and DressingNet, which are respectively dedicated to
extracting detailed clothing features and generating customized images.
Specifically, we propose an efficient and scalable module called
Garment-Specific Feature Extractor in GarmentsNet to individually encode
garment textures in parallel. This design prevents garment confusion while
ensuring network efficiency. Meanwhile, we design an adaptive
Dressing-Attention mechanism and a novel Instance-Level Garment Localization
Learning strategy in DressingNet to accurately inject multi-garment features
into their corresponding regions. This approach efficiently integrates
multi-garment texture cues into generated images and further enhances
text-image consistency. Additionally, we introduce a Garment-Enhanced Texture
Learning strategy to improve the fine-grained texture details of garments.
Thanks to our well-craft design, AnyDressing can serve as a plug-in module to
easily integrate with any community control extensions for diffusion models,
improving the diversity and controllability of synthesized images. Extensive
experiments show that AnyDressing achieves state-of-the-art results.

---

## 11. [Negative Token Merging: Image-based Adversarial Feature Guidance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.01339)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.01339](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01339)

**Authors**: Jaskirat Singh, Lindsey Li, Weijia Shi, Ranjay Krishna, Yejin Choi, Pang Wei Koh, Michael F. Cohen, Stephen Gould, Liang Zheng, Luke Zettlemoyer

**Published**: 2024-12-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Jaskirat Singh

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Text-based adversarial guidance using a negative prompt has emerged as a
widely adopted approach to push the output features away from undesired
concepts. While useful, performing adversarial guidance using text alone can be
insufficient to capture complex visual concepts and avoid undesired visual
elements like copyrighted characters. In this paper, for the first time we
explore an alternate modality in this direction by performing adversarial
guidance directly using visual features from a reference image or other images
in a batch. In particular, we introduce negative token merging (NegToMe), a
simple but effective training-free approach which performs adversarial guidance
by selectively pushing apart matching semantic features (between reference and
output generation) during the reverse diffusion process. When used w.r.t. other
images in the same batch, we observe that NegToMe significantly increases
output diversity (racial, gender, visual) without sacrificing output image
quality. Similarly, when used w.r.t. a reference copyrighted asset, NegToMe
helps reduce visual similarity with copyrighted content by 34.57%. NegToMe is
simple to implement using just few-lines of code, uses only marginally higher
(<4%) inference times and generalizes to different diffusion architectures like
Flux, which do not natively support the use of a separate negative prompt. Code
is available at https://negtome.github.io

---

## 12. [Densing Law of LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04315)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04315](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04315)

**Organization**: OpenBMB

**Authors**: Chaojun Xiao, Jie Cai, Weilin Zhao, Guoyang Zeng, Xu Han, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Chaojun XIAO

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as a milestone in artificial
intelligence, and their performance can improve as the model size increases.
However, this scaling brings great challenges to training and inference
efficiency, particularly for deploying LLMs in resource-constrained
environments, and the scaling trend is becoming increasingly unsustainable.
This paper introduces the concept of ``capacity density'' as a new
metric to evaluate the quality of the LLMs across different scales and
describes the trend of LLMs in terms of both effectiveness and efficiency. To
calculate the capacity density of a given target LLM, we first introduce a set
of reference models and develop a scaling law to predict the downstream
performance of these reference models based on their parameter sizes. We then
define the effective parameter size of the target LLM as the parameter
size required by a reference model to achieve equivalent performance, and
formalize the capacity density as the ratio of the effective parameter size to
the actual parameter size of the target LLM. Capacity density provides a
unified framework for assessing both model effectiveness and efficiency. Our
further analysis of recent open-source base LLMs reveals an empirical law (the
densing law)that the capacity density of LLMs grows exponentially over time.
More specifically, using some widely used benchmarks for evaluation, the
capacity density of LLMs doubles approximately every three months. The law
provides new perspectives to guide future LLM development, emphasizing the
importance of improving capacity density to achieve optimal results with
minimal computational overhead.

---

## 13. [Global MMLU: Understanding and Addressing Cultural and Linguistic Biases
  in Multilingual Evaluation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.03304)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.03304](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03304)

**Authors**: Shivalika Singh, Angelika Romanou, Clémentine Fourrier, David I. Adelani, Jian Gang Ngui, Daniel Vila-Suero, Peerat Limkonchotiwat, Kelly Marchisio, Wei Qi Leong, Yosephine Susanto, Raymond Ng, Shayne Longpre, Wei-Yin Ko, Madeline Smith, Antoine Bosselut, Alice Oh, Andre F. T. Martins, Leshem Choshen, Daphne Ippolito, Enzo Ferrante, Marzieh Fadaee, Beyza Ermis, Sara Hooker

**Published**: 2024-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Daniel Vila

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Cultural biases in multilingual datasets pose significant challenges for
their effectiveness as global benchmarks. These biases stem not only from
language but also from the cultural knowledge required to interpret questions,
reducing the practical utility of translated datasets like MMLU. Furthermore,
translation often introduces artifacts that can distort the meaning or clarity
of questions in the target language. A common practice in multilingual
evaluation is to rely on machine-translated evaluation sets, but simply
translating a dataset is insufficient to address these challenges. In this
work, we trace the impact of both of these issues on multilingual evaluations
and ensuing model performances. Our large-scale evaluation of state-of-the-art
open and proprietary models illustrates that progress on MMLU depends heavily
on learning Western-centric concepts, with 28% of all questions requiring
culturally sensitive knowledge. Moreover, for questions requiring geographic
knowledge, an astounding 84.9% focus on either North American or European
regions. Rankings of model evaluations change depending on whether they are
evaluated on the full portion or the subset of questions annotated as
culturally sensitive, showing the distortion to model rankings when blindly
relying on translated MMLU. We release Global-MMLU, an improved MMLU with
evaluation coverage across 42 languages -- with improved overall quality by
engaging with compensated professional and community annotators to verify
translation quality while also rigorously evaluating cultural biases present in
the original dataset. This comprehensive Global-MMLU set also includes
designated subsets labeled as culturally sensitive and culturally agnostic to
allow for more holistic, complete evaluation.

---

## 14. [Infinity: Scaling Bitwise AutoRegressive Modeling for High-Resolution
  Image Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04431)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04431](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04431)

**Authors**: Jian Han, Jinlai Liu, Yi Jiang, Bin Yan, Yuqi Zhang, Zehuan Yuan, Bingyue Peng, Xiaobing Liu

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Liao Qu

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

We present Infinity, a Bitwise Visual AutoRegressive Modeling capable of
generating high-resolution, photorealistic images following language
instruction. Infinity redefines visual autoregressive model under a bitwise
token prediction framework with an infinite-vocabulary tokenizer & classifier
and bitwise self-correction mechanism, remarkably improving the generation
capacity and details. By theoretically scaling the tokenizer vocabulary size to
infinity and concurrently scaling the transformer size, our method
significantly unleashes powerful scaling capabilities compared to vanilla VAR.
Infinity sets a new record for autoregressive text-to-image models,
outperforming top-tier diffusion models like SD3-Medium and SDXL. Notably,
Infinity surpasses SD3-Medium by improving the GenEval benchmark score from
0.62 to 0.73 and the ImageReward benchmark score from 0.87 to 0.96, achieving a
win rate of 66%. Without extra optimization, Infinity generates a high-quality
1024x1024 image in 0.8 seconds, making it 2.6x faster than SD3-Medium and
establishing it as the fastest text-to-image model. Models and codes will be
released to promote further exploration of Infinity for visual generation and
unified tokenizer modeling.

---

## 15. [HumanEdit: A High-Quality Human-Rewarded Dataset for Instruction-based
  Image Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04280)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04280](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04280)

**Authors**: Jinbin Bai, Wei Chow, Ling Yang, Xiangtai Li, Juncheng Li, Hanwang Zhang, Shuicheng Yan

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Jinbin Bai

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/viiika/humanedit) | [Project Page](https://viiika.github.io/HumanEdit)

### Abstract

We present HumanEdit, a high-quality, human-rewarded dataset specifically
designed for instruction-guided image editing, enabling precise and diverse
image manipulations through open-form language instructions. Previous
large-scale editing datasets often incorporate minimal human feedback, leading
to challenges in aligning datasets with human preferences. HumanEdit bridges
this gap by employing human annotators to construct data pairs and
administrators to provide feedback. With meticulously curation, HumanEdit
comprises 5,751 images and requires more than 2,500 hours of human effort
across four stages, ensuring both accuracy and reliability for a wide range of
image editing tasks. The dataset includes six distinct types of editing
instructions: Action, Add, Counting, Relation, Remove, and Replace,
encompassing a broad spectrum of real-world scenarios. All images in the
dataset are accompanied by masks, and for a subset of the data, we ensure that
the instructions are sufficiently detailed to support mask-free editing.
Furthermore, HumanEdit offers comprehensive diversity and high-resolution 1024
times 1024 content sourced from various domains, setting a new versatile
benchmark for instructional image editing datasets. With the aim of advancing
future research and establishing evaluation benchmarks in the field of image
editing, we release HumanEdit at
https://huggingface.co/datasets/BryanW/HumanEdit.

---

## 16. [Monet: Mixture of Monosemantic Experts for Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04139)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04139](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04139)

**Authors**: Jungwoo Park, Young Jin Ahn, Kee-Eung Kim, Jaewoo Kang

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Jungwoo Park

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dmis-lab/monet) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/spaces/MonetLLM/monet-vd-1.4B-100BT-hf-viewer)

### Abstract

Understanding the internal computations of large language models (LLMs) is
crucial for aligning them with human values and preventing undesirable
behaviors like toxic content generation. However, mechanistic interpretability
is hindered by polysemanticity -- where individual neurons respond to multiple,
unrelated concepts. While Sparse Autoencoders (SAEs) have attempted to
disentangle these features through sparse dictionary learning, they have
compromised LLM performance due to reliance on post-hoc reconstruction loss. To
address this issue, we introduce Mixture of Monosemantic Experts for
Transformers (Monet) architecture, which incorporates sparse dictionary
learning directly into end-to-end Mixture-of-Experts pretraining. Our novel
expert decomposition method enables scaling the expert count to 262,144 per
layer while total parameters scale proportionally to the square root of the
number of experts. Our analyses demonstrate mutual exclusivity of knowledge
across experts and showcase the parametric knowledge encapsulated within
individual experts. Moreover, Monet allows knowledge manipulation over domains,
languages, and toxicity mitigation without degrading general performance. Our
pursuit of transparent LLMs highlights the potential of scaling expert counts
to enhance} mechanistic interpretability and directly resect the internal
knowledge to fundamentally adjust} model behavior. The source code and
pretrained checkpoints are available at https://github.com/dmis-lab/Monet.

---

## 17. [Personalized Multimodal Large Language Models: A Survey](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.02142)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.02142](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02142)

**Authors**: Junda Wu, Hanjia Lyu, Yu Xia, Zhehao Zhang, Joe Barrow, Ishita Kumar, Mehrnoosh Mirtaheri, Hongjie Chen, Ryan A. Rossi, Franck Dernoncourt, Tong Yu, Ruiyi Zhang, Jiuxiang Gu, Nesreen K. Ahmed, Yu Wang, Xiang Chen, Hanieh Deilamsalehy, Namyong Park, Sungchul Kim, Huanrui Yang, Subrata Mitra, Zhengmian Hu, Nedim Lipka, Dang Nguyen, Yue Zhao, Jiebo Luo, Julian McAuley

**Published**: 2024-12-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Franck Dernoncourt

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have become increasingly important
due to their state-of-the-art performance and ability to integrate multiple
data modalities, such as text, images, and audio, to perform complex tasks with
high accuracy. This paper presents a comprehensive survey on personalized
multimodal large language models, focusing on their architecture, training
methods, and applications. We propose an intuitive taxonomy for categorizing
the techniques used to personalize MLLMs to individual users, and discuss the
techniques accordingly. Furthermore, we discuss how such techniques can be
combined or adapted when appropriate, highlighting their advantages and
underlying rationale. We also provide a succinct summary of personalization
tasks investigated in existing research, along with the evaluation metrics
commonly used. Additionally, we summarize the datasets that are useful for
benchmarking personalized MLLMs. Finally, we outline critical open challenges.
This survey aims to serve as a valuable resource for researchers and
practitioners seeking to understand and advance the development of personalized
multimodal large language models.

---

## 18. [OmniFlow: Any-to-Any Generation with Multi-Modal Rectified Flows](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.01169)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.01169](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01169)

**Authors**: Shufan Li, Konstantinos Kallidromitis, Akash Gokul, Zichun Liao, Yusuke Kato, Kazuki Kozuka, Aditya Grover

**Published**: 2024-12-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Shufan Li

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jacklishufan/omniflows)

### Abstract

We introduce OmniFlow, a novel generative model designed for any-to-any
generation tasks such as text-to-image, text-to-audio, and audio-to-image
synthesis. OmniFlow advances the rectified flow (RF) framework used in
text-to-image models to handle the joint distribution of multiple modalities.
It outperforms previous any-to-any models on a wide range of tasks, such as
text-to-image and text-to-audio synthesis. Our work offers three key
contributions: First, we extend RF to a multi-modal setting and introduce a
novel guidance mechanism, enabling users to flexibly control the alignment
between different modalities in the generated outputs. Second, we propose a
novel architecture that extends the text-to-image MMDiT architecture of Stable
Diffusion 3 and enables audio and text generation. The extended modules can be
efficiently pretrained individually and merged with the vanilla text-to-image
MMDiT for fine-tuning. Lastly, we conduct a comprehensive study on the design
choices of rectified flow transformers for large-scale audio and text
generation, providing valuable insights into optimizing performance across
diverse modalities. The Code will be available at
https://github.com/jacklishufan/OmniFlows.

---

## 19. [Towards Universal Soccer Video Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.01820)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.01820](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01820)

**Authors**: Jiayuan Rao, Haoning Wu, Hao Jiang, Ya Zhang, Yanfeng Wang, Weidi Xie

**Published**: 2024-12-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Haoning Wu

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jyrao/UniSoccer) | [Project Page](https://jyrao.github.io/UniSoccer/)

### Abstract

As a globally celebrated sport, soccer has attracted widespread interest from
fans all over the world. This paper aims to develop a comprehensive multi-modal
framework for soccer video understanding. Specifically, we make the following
contributions in this paper: (i) we introduce SoccerReplay-1988, the largest
multi-modal soccer dataset to date, featuring videos and detailed annotations
from 1,988 complete matches, with an automated annotation pipeline; (ii) we
present the first visual-language foundation model in the soccer domain,
MatchVision, which leverages spatiotemporal information across soccer videos
and excels in various downstream tasks; (iii) we conduct extensive experiments
and ablation studies on event classification, commentary generation, and
multi-view foul recognition. MatchVision demonstrates state-of-the-art
performance on all of them, substantially outperforming existing models, which
highlights the superiority of our proposed data and model. We believe that this
work will offer a standard paradigm for sports understanding research.

---

## 20. [MEMO: Memory-Guided Diffusion for Expressive Talking Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04448)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04448](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04448)

**Authors**: Longtao Zheng, Yifan Zhang, Hanzhong Guo, Jiachun Pan, Zhenxiong Tan, Jiahao Lu, Chuanxin Tang, Bo An, Shuicheng Yan

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Longtao Zheng

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Recent advances in video diffusion models have unlocked new potential for
realistic audio-driven talking video generation. However, achieving seamless
audio-lip synchronization, maintaining long-term identity consistency, and
producing natural, audio-aligned expressions in generated talking videos remain
significant challenges. To address these challenges, we propose Memory-guided
EMOtion-aware diffusion (MEMO), an end-to-end audio-driven portrait animation
approach to generate identity-consistent and expressive talking videos. Our
approach is built around two key modules: (1) a memory-guided temporal module,
which enhances long-term identity consistency and motion smoothness by
developing memory states to store information from a longer past context to
guide temporal modeling via linear attention; and (2) an emotion-aware audio
module, which replaces traditional cross attention with multi-modal attention
to enhance audio-video interaction, while detecting emotions from audio to
refine facial expressions via emotion adaptive layer norm. Extensive
quantitative and qualitative results demonstrate that MEMO generates more
realistic talking videos across diverse image and audio types, outperforming
state-of-the-art methods in overall quality, audio-lip synchronization,
identity consistency, and expression-emotion alignment.

---

## 21. [Discriminative Fine-tuning of LVLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04378)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04378](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04378)

**Authors**: Yassine Ouali, Adrian Bulat, Alexandros Xenos, Anestis Zaganidis, Ioannis Maniadis Metaxas, Georgios Tzimiropoulos, Brais Martinez

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Adrian Bulat

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Contrastively-trained Vision-Language Models (VLMs) like CLIP have become the
de facto approach for discriminative vision-language representation learning.
However, these models have limited language understanding, often exhibiting a
"bag of words" behavior. At the same time, Large Vision-Language Models
(LVLMs), which combine vision encoders with LLMs, have been shown capable of
detailed vision-language reasoning, yet their autoregressive nature renders
them less suitable for discriminative tasks.
  In this work, we propose to combine "the best of both worlds": a new training
approach for discriminative fine-tuning of LVLMs that results in strong
discriminative and compositional capabilities. Essentially, our approach
converts a generative LVLM into a discriminative one, unlocking its capability
for powerful image-text discrimination combined with enhanced language
understanding.
  Our contributions include: (1) A carefully designed training/optimization
framework that utilizes image-text pairs of variable length and granularity for
training the model with both contrastive and next-token prediction losses. This
is accompanied by ablation studies that justify the necessity of our
framework's components. (2) A parameter-efficient adaptation method using a
combination of soft prompting and LoRA adapters. (3) Significant improvements
over state-of-the-art CLIP-like models of similar size, including standard
image-text retrieval benchmarks and notable gains in compositionality.

---

## 22. [Marco-LLM: Bridging Languages via Massive Multilingual Training for
  Cross-Lingual Enhancement](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04003)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04003](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04003)

**Authors**: Lingfeng Ming, Bo Zeng, Chenyang Lyu, Tianqi Shi, Yu Zhao, Xue Yang, Yefeng Liu, Yiyu Wang, Linlong Xu, Yangyang Liu, Xiaohu Zhao, Hao Wang, Heng Liu, Hao Zhou, Huifeng Yin, Zifu Shang, Haijun Li, Longyue Wang, Weihua Luo, Kaifu Zhang

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable progress in recent
years; however, their excellent performance is still largely limited to major
world languages, primarily English. Many LLMs continue to face challenges with
multilingual tasks, especially when it comes to low-resource languages. To
address this issue, we introduced Marco-LLM: Massive multilingual training for
cross-lingual enhancement LLM. We have collected a substantial amount of
multilingual data for several low-resource languages and conducted extensive
continual pre-training using the Qwen2 models. This effort has resulted in a
multilingual LLM named Marco-LLM. Through comprehensive evaluations on various
multilingual benchmarks, including MMMLU, AGIEval, Belebele, Flores-200, XCOPA
and many others, Marco-LLM has demonstrated substantial improvements over
state-of-the-art LLMs. Furthermore, Marco-LLM achieved substantial enhancements
in any-to-any machine translation tasks, showing the effectiveness of our
multilingual LLM. Marco-LLM is a pioneering multilingual LLM designed to not
only perform exceptionally well in multilingual tasks, including low-resource
languages, but also maintain strong performance in English and other major
languages, closing the performance gap between high- and low-resource language
capabilities. By bridging languages, this effort demonstrates our dedication to
ensuring LLMs work accurately across various languages.

---

## 23. [4Real-Video: Learning Generalizable Photo-Realistic 4D Video Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04462)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04462](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04462)

**Authors**: Chaoyang Wang, Peiye Zhuang, Tuan Duc Ngo, Willi Menapace, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Michael Vasilkovsky, Ivan Skorokhodov, Sergey Tulyakov, Peter Wonka, Hsin-Ying Lee

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Hsin-Ying Lee

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

We propose 4Real-Video, a novel framework for generating 4D videos, organized
as a grid of video frames with both time and viewpoint axes. In this grid, each
row contains frames sharing the same timestep, while each column contains
frames from the same viewpoint. We propose a novel two-stream architecture. One
stream performs viewpoint updates on columns, and the other stream performs
temporal updates on rows. After each diffusion transformer layer, a
synchronization layer exchanges information between the two token streams. We
propose two implementations of the synchronization layer, using either hard or
soft synchronization. This feedforward architecture improves upon previous work
in three ways: higher inference speed, enhanced visual quality (measured by
FVD, CLIP, and VideoScore), and improved temporal and viewpoint consistency
(measured by VideoScore and Dust3R-Confidence).

---

## 24. [ZipAR: Accelerating Autoregressive Image Generation through Spatial
  Locality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04062)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04062](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04062)

**Authors**: Yefei He, Feng Chen, Yuanyu He, Shaoxuan He, Hong Zhou, Kaipeng Zhang, Bohan Zhuang

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by kaipeng

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ThisisBillhe/ZipAR)

### Abstract

In this paper, we propose ZipAR, a training-free, plug-and-play parallel
decoding framework for accelerating auto-regressive (AR) visual generation. The
motivation stems from the observation that images exhibit local structures, and
spatially distant regions tend to have minimal interdependence. Given a
partially decoded set of visual tokens, in addition to the original next-token
prediction scheme in the row dimension, the tokens corresponding to spatially
adjacent regions in the column dimension can be decoded in parallel, enabling
the ``next-set prediction'' paradigm. By decoding multiple tokens
simultaneously in a single forward pass, the number of forward passes required
to generate an image is significantly reduced, resulting in a substantial
improvement in generation efficiency. Experiments demonstrate that ZipAR can
reduce the number of model forward passes by up to 91% on the Emu3-Gen model
without requiring any additional retraining.

---

## 25. [KV Shifting Attention Enhances Language Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.19574)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.19574](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.19574)

**Authors**: Mingyu Xu, Wei Cheng, Bingning Wang, Weipeng Chen

**Published**: 2024-11-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by xumingyu

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/erogol/blagpt)

### Abstract

The current large language models are mainly based on decode-only structure
transformers, which have great in-context learning (ICL) capabilities. It is
generally believed that the important foundation of its ICL capability is the
induction heads mechanism, which requires at least two layers attention. In
order to more efficiently implement the ability of the model's induction, we
revisit the induction heads mechanism and proposed a KV shifting attention. We
theoretically prove that the KV shifting attention reducing the model's
requirements for the depth and width of the induction heads mechanism. Our
experimental results demonstrate that KV shifting attention is beneficial to
learning induction heads and language modeling, which lead to better
performance or faster convergence from toy models to the pre-training models
with more than 10 B parameters.

---

## 26. [p-MoD: Building Mixture-of-Depths MLLMs via Progressive Ratio Decay](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04449)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04449](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04449)

**Authors**: Jun Zhang, Desen Meng, Ji Qi, Zhenpeng Huang, Tao Wu, Limin Wang

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Jun Zhang

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mcg-nju/p-mod)

### Abstract

Despite the remarkable performance of multimodal large language models
(MLLMs) across diverse tasks, the substantial training and inference costs
impede their advancement. The majority of computation stems from the
overwhelming volume of vision tokens processed by the transformer decoder. In
this paper, we propose to build efficient MLLMs by leveraging the
Mixture-of-Depths (MoD) mechanism, where each transformer decoder layer selects
essential vision tokens to process while skipping redundant ones. However,
integrating MoD into MLLMs is non-trivial. To address the challenges of
training and inference stability as well as limited training data, we adapt the
MoD module with two novel designs: tanh-gated weight normalization (TanhNorm)
and symmetric token reweighting (STRing). Moreover, we observe that vision
tokens exhibit higher redundancy in deeper layer and thus design a progressive
ratio decay (PRD) strategy, which gradually reduces the token retention ratio
layer by layer, employing a shifted cosine schedule. This crucial design fully
unleashes the potential of MoD, significantly boosting the efficiency and
performance of our models. To validate the effectiveness of our approach, we
conduct extensive experiments with two baseline models across 14 benchmarks.
Our model, p-MoD, matches or even surpasses the performance of the baseline
models, with only 55.6% TFLOPs and 53.8% KV cache storage during inference, and
77.7% GPU hours during training.

---

## 27. [Scaling Inference-Time Search with Vision Value Model for Improved
  Visual Comprehension](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.03704)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.03704](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03704)

**Authors**: Wang Xiyao, Yang Zhengyuan, Li Linjie, Lu Hongjin, Xu Yuancheng, Lin Chung-Ching Lin, Lin Kevin, Huang Furong, Wang Lijuan

**Published**: 2024-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Xiyao Wang

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/si0wang/visvm)

### Abstract

Despite significant advancements in vision-language models (VLMs), there
lacks effective approaches to enhance response quality by scaling
inference-time computation. This capability is known to be a core step towards
the self-improving models in recent large language model studies. In this
paper, we present Vision Value Model (VisVM) that can guide VLM inference-time
search to generate responses with better visual comprehension. Specifically,
VisVM not only evaluates the generated sentence quality in the current search
step, but also anticipates the quality of subsequent sentences that may result
from the current step, thus providing a long-term value. In this way, VisVM
steers VLMs away from generating sentences prone to hallucinations or
insufficient detail, thereby producing higher quality responses. Experimental
results demonstrate that VisVM-guided search significantly enhances VLMs'
ability to generate descriptive captions with richer visual details and fewer
hallucinations, compared with greedy decoding and search methods with other
visual reward signals. Furthermore, we find that self-training the model with
the VisVM-guided captions improve VLM's performance across a wide range of
multimodal benchmarks, indicating the potential for developing self-improving
VLMs. Our value model and code are available at
https://github.com/si0wang/VisVM.

---

## 28. [MRGen: Diffusion-based Controllable Data Engine for MRI Segmentation
  towards Unannotated Modalities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04106)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04106](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04106)

**Authors**: Haoning Wu, Ziheng Zhao, Ya Zhang, Weidi Xie, Yanfeng Wang

**Published**: 2024-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Haoning Wu

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/haoningwu3639/MRGen) | [Project Page](https://haoningwu3639.github.io/MRGen/)

### Abstract

Medical image segmentation has recently demonstrated impressive progress with
deep neural networks, yet the heterogeneous modalities and scarcity of mask
annotations limit the development of segmentation models on unannotated
modalities. This paper investigates a new paradigm for leveraging generative
models in medical applications: controllably synthesizing data for unannotated
modalities, without requiring registered data pairs. Specifically, we make the
following contributions in this paper: (i) we collect and curate a large-scale
radiology image-text dataset, MedGen-1M, comprising modality labels,
attributes, region, and organ information, along with a subset of organ mask
annotations, to support research in controllable medical image generation; (ii)
we propose a diffusion-based data engine, termed MRGen, which enables
generation conditioned on text prompts and masks, synthesizing MR images for
diverse modalities lacking mask annotations, to train segmentation models on
unannotated modalities; (iii) we conduct extensive experiments across various
modalities, illustrating that our data engine can effectively synthesize
training samples and extend MRI segmentation towards unannotated modalities.

---

## 29. [Challenges in Trustworthy Human Evaluation of Chatbots](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04363)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04363](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04363)

**Authors**: Wenting Zhao, Alexander M. Rush, Tanya Goyal

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Wenting Zhao

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Open community-driven platforms like Chatbot Arena that collect user
preference data from site visitors have gained a reputation as one of the most
trustworthy publicly available benchmarks for LLM performance. While now
standard, it is tricky to implement effective guardrails to collect
high-quality annotations from humans. In this paper, we demonstrate that three
sources of bad annotations, both malicious and otherwise, can corrupt the
reliability of open leaderboard rankings. In particular, we show that only 10\%
of poor quality votes by apathetic (site visitors not appropriately
incentivized to give correct votes) or adversarial (bad actors seeking to
inflate the ranking of a target model) annotators can change the rankings of
models by up to 5 places on the leaderboard. Finally, we discuss open
challenges in ensuring high-quality human annotations.

---

## 30. [SynFinTabs: A Dataset of Synthetic Financial Tables for Information and
  Table Extraction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04262)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04262](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04262)

**Authors**: Ethan Bradley, Muhammad Roman, Karen Rafferty, Barry Devereux

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Ethan Bradley

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ethanbradley/synfintabgen) | [Project Page](https://ethanbradley.co.uk/research/synfintabs)

### Abstract

Table extraction from document images is a challenging AI problem, and
labelled data for many content domains is difficult to come by. Existing table
extraction datasets often focus on scientific tables due to the vast amount of
academic articles that are readily available, along with their source code.
However, there are significant layout and typographical differences between
tables found across scientific, financial, and other domains. Current datasets
often lack the words, and their positions, contained within the tables, instead
relying on unreliable OCR to extract these features for training modern machine
learning models on natural language processing tasks. Therefore, there is a
need for a more general method of obtaining labelled data. We present
SynFinTabs, a large-scale, labelled dataset of synthetic financial tables. Our
hope is that our method of generating these synthetic tables is transferable to
other domains. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our dataset in training
models to extract information from table images, we create FinTabQA, a layout
large language model trained on an extractive question-answering task. We test
our model using real-world financial tables and compare it to a
state-of-the-art generative model and discuss the results. We make the dataset,
model, and dataset generation code publicly available.

---

## 31. [Establishing Task Scaling Laws via Compute-Efficient Model Ladders](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.04403)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.04403](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04403)

**Authors**: Akshita Bhagia, Jiacheng Liu, Alexander Wettig, David Heineman, Oyvind Tafjord, Ananya Harsh Jha, Luca Soldaini, Noah A. Smith, Dirk Groeneveld, Pang Wei Koh, Jesse Dodge, Hannaneh Hajishirzi

**Published**: 2024-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-12-06 by Jiacheng Liu

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

We develop task scaling laws and model ladders to predict the individual task
performance of pretrained language models (LMs) in the overtrained setting.
Standard power laws for language modeling loss cannot accurately model task
performance. Therefore, we leverage a two-step prediction approach: first use
model and data size to predict a task-specific loss, and then use this task
loss to predict task performance. We train a set of small-scale "ladder"
models, collect data points to fit the parameterized functions of the two
prediction steps, and make predictions for two target models: a 7B model
trained to 4T tokens and a 13B model trained to 5T tokens. Training the ladder
models only costs 1% of the compute used for the target models. On four
multiple-choice tasks written in ranked classification format, we can predict
the accuracy of both target models within 2 points of absolute error. We have
higher prediction error on four other tasks (average absolute error 6.9) and
find that these are often tasks with higher variance in task metrics. We also
find that using less compute to train fewer ladder models tends to deteriorate
predictions. Finally, we empirically show that our design choices and the
two-step approach lead to superior performance in establishing scaling laws.

---
