# Daily Papers - 2024-07-25

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-07-25)

Total papers: 13

---

## 1. [OpenDevin: An Open Platform for AI Software Developers as Generalist
  Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.16741)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.16741](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16741)

**Authors**: Xingyao Wang, Boxuan Li, Yufan Song, Frank F. Xu, Xiangru Tang, Mingchen Zhuge, Jiayi Pan, Yueqi Song, Bowen Li, Jaskirat Singh, Hoang H. Tran, Fuqiang Li, Ren Ma, Mingzhang Zheng, Bill Qian, Yanjun Shao, Niklas Muennighoff, Yizhe Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Junyang Lin, Robert Brennan, Hao Peng, Heng Ji, Graham Neubig

**Published**: 2024-07-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 77

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opendevin/opendevin)

### Abstract

Software is one of the most powerful tools that we humans have at our
disposal; it allows a skilled programmer to interact with the world in complex
and profound ways. At the same time, thanks to improvements in large language
models (LLMs), there has also been a rapid development in AI agents that
interact with and affect change in their surrounding environments. In this
paper, we introduce OpenDevin, a platform for the development of powerful and
flexible AI agents that interact with the world in similar ways to those of a
human developer: by writing code, interacting with a command line, and browsing
the web. We describe how the platform allows for the implementation of new
agents, safe interaction with sandboxed environments for code execution,
coordination between multiple agents, and incorporation of evaluation
benchmarks. Based on our currently incorporated benchmarks, we perform an
evaluation of agents over 15 challenging tasks, including software engineering
(e.g., SWE-Bench) and web browsing (e.g., WebArena), among others. Released
under the permissive MIT license, OpenDevin is a community project spanning
academia and industry with more than 1.3K contributions from over 160
contributors and will improve going forward.

---

## 2. [VILA^2: VILA Augmented VILA](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.17453)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.17453](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17453)

**Authors**: Yunhao Fang, Ligeng Zhu, Yan Wang, Pavlo Molchanov, Jang Hyun Cho, Marco Pavone, Song Han, Hongxu Yin

**Published**: 2024-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by Yunhao Fang

**Upvotes**: 41

### Abstract

Visual language models (VLMs) have rapidly progressed, driven by the success
of large language models (LLMs). While model architectures and training
infrastructures advance rapidly, data curation remains under-explored. When
data quantity and quality become a bottleneck, existing work either directly
crawls more raw data from the Internet that does not have a guarantee of data
quality or distills from black-box commercial models (e.g., GPT-4V / Gemini)
causing the performance upper bounded by that model. In this work, we introduce
a novel approach that includes a self-augment step and a specialist-augment
step to iteratively improve data quality and model performance. In the
self-augment step, a VLM recaptions its own pretraining data to enhance data
quality, and then retrains from scratch using this refined dataset to improve
model performance. This process can iterate for several rounds. Once
self-augmentation saturates, we employ several specialist VLMs finetuned from
the self-augmented VLM with domain-specific expertise, to further infuse
specialist knowledge into the generalist VLM through task-oriented recaptioning
and retraining. With the combined self-augmented and specialist-augmented
training, we introduce VILA^2 (VILA-augmented-VILA), a VLM family that
consistently improves the accuracy on a wide range of tasks over prior art, and
achieves new state-of-the-art results on MMMU leaderboard among open-sourced
models.

---

## 3. [HumanVid: Demystifying Training Data for Camera-controllable Human Image
  Animation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.17438)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.17438](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17438)

**Authors**: Zhenzhi Wang, Yixuan Li, Yanhong Zeng, Youqing Fang, Yuwei Guo, Wenran Liu, Jing Tan, Kai Chen, Tianfan Xue, Bo Dai, Dahua Lin

**Published**: 2024-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zhenzhiwang/humanvid)

### Abstract

Human image animation involves generating videos from a character photo,
allowing user control and unlocking potential for video and movie production.
While recent approaches yield impressive results using high-quality training
data, the inaccessibility of these datasets hampers fair and transparent
benchmarking. Moreover, these approaches prioritize 2D human motion and
overlook the significance of camera motions in videos, leading to limited
control and unstable video generation.To demystify the training data, we
present HumanVid, the first large-scale high-quality dataset tailored for human
image animation, which combines crafted real-world and synthetic data. For the
real-world data, we compile a vast collection of copyright-free real-world
videos from the internet. Through a carefully designed rule-based filtering
strategy, we ensure the inclusion of high-quality videos, resulting in a
collection of 20K human-centric videos in 1080P resolution. Human and camera
motion annotation is accomplished using a 2D pose estimator and a SLAM-based
method. For the synthetic data, we gather 2,300 copyright-free 3D avatar assets
to augment existing available 3D assets. Notably, we introduce a rule-based
camera trajectory generation method, enabling the synthetic pipeline to
incorporate diverse and precise camera motion annotation, which can rarely be
found in real-world data. To verify the effectiveness of HumanVid, we establish
a baseline model named CamAnimate, short for Camera-controllable Human
Animation, that considers both human and camera motions as conditions. Through
extensive experimentation, we demonstrate that such simple baseline training on
our HumanVid achieves state-of-the-art performance in controlling both human
pose and camera motions, setting a new benchmark. Code and data will be
publicly available at https://github.com/zhenzhiwang/HumanVid/.

---

## 4. [DDK: Distilling Domain Knowledge for Efficient Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.16154)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.16154](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16154)

**Authors**: Jiaheng Liu, Chenchen Zhang, Jinyang Guo, Yuanxing Zhang, Haoran Que, Ken Deng, Zhiqi Bai, Jie Liu, Ge Zhang, Jiakai Wang, Yanan Wu, Congnan Liu, Wenbo Su, Jiamang Wang, Lin Qu, Bo Zheng

**Published**: 2024-07-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by Chenchen Zhang

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Despite the advanced intelligence abilities of large language models (LLMs)
in various applications, they still face significant computational and storage
demands. Knowledge Distillation (KD) has emerged as an effective strategy to
improve the performance of a smaller LLM (i.e., the student model) by
transferring knowledge from a high-performing LLM (i.e., the teacher model).
Prevailing techniques in LLM distillation typically use a black-box model API
to generate high-quality pretrained and aligned datasets, or utilize white-box
distillation by altering the loss function to better transfer knowledge from
the teacher LLM. However, these methods ignore the knowledge differences
between the student and teacher LLMs across domains. This results in excessive
focus on domains with minimal performance gaps and insufficient attention to
domains with large gaps, reducing overall performance. In this paper, we
introduce a new LLM distillation framework called DDK, which dynamically
adjusts the composition of the distillation dataset in a smooth manner
according to the domain performance differences between the teacher and student
models, making the distillation process more stable and effective. Extensive
evaluations show that DDK significantly improves the performance of student
models, outperforming both continuously pretrained baselines and existing
knowledge distillation methods by a large margin.

---

## 5. [PERSONA: A Reproducible Testbed for Pluralistic Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.17387)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.17387](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17387)

**Authors**: Louis Castricato, Nathan Lile, Rafael Rafailov, Jan-Philipp Fränken, Chelsea Finn

**Published**: 2024-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

The rapid advancement of language models (LMs) necessitates robust alignment
with diverse user values. However, current preference optimization approaches
often fail to capture the plurality of user opinions, instead reinforcing
majority viewpoints and marginalizing minority perspectives. We introduce
PERSONA, a reproducible test bed designed to evaluate and improve pluralistic
alignment of LMs. We procedurally generate diverse user profiles from US census
data, resulting in 1,586 synthetic personas with varied demographic and
idiosyncratic attributes. We then generate a large-scale evaluation dataset
containing 3,868 prompts and 317,200 feedback pairs obtained from our synthetic
personas. Leveraging this dataset, we systematically evaluate LM capabilities
in role-playing diverse users, verified through human judges, and the
establishment of both a benchmark, PERSONA Bench, for pluralistic alignment
approaches as well as an extensive dataset to create new and future benchmarks.
The full dataset and benchmarks are available here:
https://www.synthlabs.ai/research/persona.

---

## 6. [Longhorn: State Space Models are Amortized Online Learners](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.14207)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.14207](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.14207)

**Authors**: Bo Liu, Rui Wang, Lemeng Wu, Yihao Feng, Peter Stone, Qiang Liu

**Published**: 2024-07-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by Lemeng Wu

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Cranial-XIX/longhorn)

### Abstract

The most fundamental capability of modern AI methods such as Large Language
Models (LLMs) is the ability to predict the next token in a long sequence of
tokens, known as ``sequence modeling." Although the Transformers model is the
current dominant approach to sequence modeling, its quadratic computational
cost with respect to sequence length is a significant drawback. State-space
models (SSMs) offer a promising alternative due to their linear decoding
efficiency and high parallelizability during training. However, existing SSMs
often rely on seemingly ad hoc linear recurrence designs. In this work, we
explore SSM design through the lens of online learning, conceptualizing SSMs as
meta-modules for specific online learning problems. This approach links SSM
design to formulating precise online learning objectives, with state transition
rules derived from optimizing these objectives. Based on this insight, we
introduce a novel deep SSM architecture based on the implicit update for
optimizing an online regression objective. Our experimental results show that
our models outperform state-of-the-art SSMs, including the Mamba model, on
standard sequence modeling benchmarks and language modeling tasks.

---

## 7. [SV4D: Dynamic 3D Content Generation with Multi-Frame and Multi-View
  Consistency](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.17470)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.17470](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17470)

**Authors**: Yiming Xie, Chun-Han Yao, Vikram Voleti, Huaizu Jiang, Varun Jampani

**Published**: 2024-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

We present Stable Video 4D (SV4D), a latent video diffusion model for
multi-frame and multi-view consistent dynamic 3D content generation. Unlike
previous methods that rely on separately trained generative models for video
generation and novel view synthesis, we design a unified diffusion model to
generate novel view videos of dynamic 3D objects. Specifically, given a
monocular reference video, SV4D generates novel views for each video frame that
are temporally consistent. We then use the generated novel view videos to
optimize an implicit 4D representation (dynamic NeRF) efficiently, without the
need for cumbersome SDS-based optimization used in most prior works. To train
our unified novel view video generation model, we curated a dynamic 3D object
dataset from the existing Objaverse dataset. Extensive experimental results on
multiple datasets and user studies demonstrate SV4D's state-of-the-art
performance on novel-view video synthesis as well as 4D generation compared to
prior works.

---

## 8. [Learning to Manipulate Anywhere: A Visual Generalizable Framework For
  Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.15815)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.15815](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.15815)

**Authors**: Zhecheng Yuan, Tianming Wei, Shuiqi Cheng, Gu Zhang, Yuanpei Chen, Huazhe Xu

**Published**: 2024-07-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by Zhecheng Yuan

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Can we endow visuomotor robots with generalization capabilities to operate in
diverse open-world scenarios? In this paper, we propose Maniwhere, a
generalizable framework tailored for visual reinforcement learning, enabling
the trained robot policies to generalize across a combination of multiple
visual disturbance types. Specifically, we introduce a multi-view
representation learning approach fused with Spatial Transformer Network (STN)
module to capture shared semantic information and correspondences among
different viewpoints. In addition, we employ a curriculum-based randomization
and augmentation approach to stabilize the RL training process and strengthen
the visual generalization ability. To exhibit the effectiveness of Maniwhere,
we meticulously design 8 tasks encompassing articulate objects, bi-manual, and
dexterous hand manipulation tasks, demonstrating Maniwhere's strong visual
generalization and sim2real transfer abilities across 3 hardware platforms. Our
experiments show that Maniwhere significantly outperforms existing
state-of-the-art methods. Videos are provided at
https://gemcollector.github.io/maniwhere/.

---

## 9. [ViPer: Visual Personalization of Generative Models via Individual
  Preference Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.17365)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.17365](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17365)

**Authors**: Sogand Salehi, Mahdi Shafiei, Teresa Yeo, Roman Bachmann, Amir Zamir

**Published**: 2024-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Different users find different images generated for the same prompt
desirable. This gives rise to personalized image generation which involves
creating images aligned with an individual's visual preference. Current
generative models are, however, unpersonalized, as they are tuned to produce
outputs that appeal to a broad audience. Using them to generate images aligned
with individual users relies on iterative manual prompt engineering by the user
which is inefficient and undesirable. We propose to personalize the image
generation process by first capturing the generic preferences of the user in a
one-time process by inviting them to comment on a small selection of images,
explaining why they like or dislike each. Based on these comments, we infer a
user's structured liked and disliked visual attributes, i.e., their visual
preference, using a large language model. These attributes are used to guide a
text-to-image model toward producing images that are tuned towards the
individual user's visual preference. Through a series of user studies and large
language model guided evaluations, we demonstrate that the proposed method
results in generations that are well aligned with individual users' visual
preferences.

---

## 10. [Scalify: scale propagation for efficient low-precision LLM training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.17353)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.17353](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17353)

**Authors**: Paul Balança, Sam Hosegood, Carlo Luschi, Andrew Fitzgibbon

**Published**: 2024-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/graphcore-research/jax-scalify)

### Abstract

Low-precision formats such as float8 have been introduced in machine learning
accelerated hardware to improve computational efficiency for large language
models training and inference. Nevertheless, adoption by the ML community has
been slowed down by the complex, and sometimes brittle, techniques required to
match higher precision training accuracy. In this work, we present Scalify, a
end-to-end scale propagation paradigm for computational graphs, generalizing
and formalizing existing tensor scaling methods. Experiment results show that
Scalify supports out-of-the-box float8 matrix multiplication and gradients
representation, as well as float16 optimizer state storage. Our JAX
implementation of Scalify is open-sourced at
https://github.com/graphcore-research/jax-scalify

---

## 11. [MOMAland: A Set of Benchmarks for Multi-Objective Multi-Agent
  Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.16312)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.16312](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16312)

**Authors**: Florian Felten, Umut Ucak, Hicham Azmani, Gao Peng, Willem Röpke, Hendrik Baier, Patrick Mannion, Diederik M. Roijers, Jordan K. Terry, El-Ghazali Talbi, Grégoire Danoy, Ann Nowé, Roxana Rădulescu

**Published**: 2024-07-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by Florian Felten

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/farama-foundation/momaland)

### Abstract

Many challenging tasks such as managing traffic systems, electricity grids,
or supply chains involve complex decision-making processes that must balance
multiple conflicting objectives and coordinate the actions of various
independent decision-makers (DMs). One perspective for formalising and
addressing such tasks is multi-objective multi-agent reinforcement learning
(MOMARL). MOMARL broadens reinforcement learning (RL) to problems with multiple
agents each needing to consider multiple objectives in their learning process.
In reinforcement learning research, benchmarks are crucial in facilitating
progress, evaluation, and reproducibility. The significance of benchmarks is
underscored by the existence of numerous benchmark frameworks developed for
various RL paradigms, including single-agent RL (e.g., Gymnasium), multi-agent
RL (e.g., PettingZoo), and single-agent multi-objective RL (e.g.,
MO-Gymnasium). To support the advancement of the MOMARL field, we introduce
MOMAland, the first collection of standardised environments for multi-objective
multi-agent reinforcement learning. MOMAland addresses the need for
comprehensive benchmarking in this emerging field, offering over 10 diverse
environments that vary in the number of agents, state representations, reward
structures, and utility considerations. To provide strong baselines for future
research, MOMAland also includes algorithms capable of learning policies in
such settings.

---

## 12. [DistilDIRE: A Small, Fast, Cheap and Lightweight Diffusion Synthesized
  Deepfake Detection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.00856)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.00856](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.00856)

**Authors**: Yewon Lim, Changyeon Lee, Aerin Kim, Oren Etzioni

**Published**: 2024-06-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/miraflow/DistilDIRE)

### Abstract

A dramatic influx of diffusion-generated images has marked recent years,
posing unique challenges to current detection technologies. While the task of
identifying these images falls under binary classification, a seemingly
straightforward category, the computational load is significant when employing
the "reconstruction then compare" technique. This approach, known as DIRE
(Diffusion Reconstruction Error), not only identifies diffusion-generated
images but also detects those produced by GANs, highlighting the technique's
broad applicability. To address the computational challenges and improve
efficiency, we propose distilling the knowledge embedded in diffusion models to
develop rapid deepfake detection models. Our approach, aimed at creating a
small, fast, cheap, and lightweight diffusion synthesized deepfake detector,
maintains robust performance while significantly reducing operational demands.
Maintaining performance, our experimental results indicate an inference speed
3.2 times faster than the existing DIRE framework. This advance not only
enhances the practicality of deploying these systems in real-world settings but
also paves the way for future research endeavors that seek to leverage
diffusion model knowledge.

---

## 13. [DreamCar: Leveraging Car-specific Prior for in-the-wild 3D Car
  Reconstruction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.16988)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.16988](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16988)

**Authors**: Xiaobiao Du, Haiyang Sun, Ming Lu, Tianqing Zhu, Xin Yu

**Published**: 2024-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-25 by Du

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xiaobiaodu/DreamCar)

### Abstract

Self-driving industries usually employ professional artists to build
exquisite 3D cars. However, it is expensive to craft large-scale digital
assets. Since there are already numerous datasets available that contain a vast
number of images of cars, we focus on reconstructing high-quality 3D car models
from these datasets. However, these datasets only contain one side of cars in
the forward-moving scene. We try to use the existing generative models to
provide more supervision information, but they struggle to generalize well in
cars since they are trained on synthetic datasets not car-specific. In
addition, The reconstructed 3D car texture misaligns due to a large error in
camera pose estimation when dealing with in-the-wild images. These restrictions
make it challenging for previous methods to reconstruct complete 3D cars. To
address these problems, we propose a novel method, named DreamCar, which can
reconstruct high-quality 3D cars given a few images even a single image. To
generalize the generative model, we collect a car dataset, named Car360, with
over 5,600 vehicles. With this dataset, we make the generative model more
robust to cars. We use this generative prior specific to the car to guide its
reconstruction via Score Distillation Sampling. To further complement the
supervision information, we utilize the geometric and appearance symmetry of
cars. Finally, we propose a pose optimization method that rectifies poses to
tackle texture misalignment. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method
significantly outperforms existing methods in reconstructing high-quality 3D
cars. https://xiaobiaodu.github.io/dreamcar-project/{Our code is
available.}

---
