# Daily Papers - 2024-07-05

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-07-05)

Total papers: 3

---

## 1. [Let the Expert Stick to His Last: Expert-Specialized Fine-Tuning for
  Sparse Architectural Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.01906)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.01906](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01906)

**Organization**: DeepSeek

**Authors**: Zihan Wang, Deli Chen, Damai Dai, Runxin Xu, Zhuoshu Li, Y. Wu

**Published**: 2024-07-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-05 by Philipp Schmid

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/deepseek-ai/esft)

### Abstract

Parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) is crucial for customizing Large
Language Models (LLMs) with constrained resources. Although there have been
various PEFT methods for dense-architecture LLMs, PEFT for sparse-architecture
LLMs is still underexplored. In this work, we study the PEFT method for LLMs
with the Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architecture and the contents of this work
are mainly threefold: (1) We investigate the dispersion degree of the activated
experts in customized tasks, and found that the routing distribution for a
specific task tends to be highly concentrated, while the distribution of
activated experts varies significantly across different tasks. (2) We propose
Expert-Specialized Fine-Tuning, or ESFT, which tunes the experts most relevant
to downstream tasks while freezing the other experts and modules; experimental
results demonstrate that our method not only improves the tuning efficiency,
but also matches or even surpasses the performance of full-parameter
fine-tuning. (3) We further analyze the impact of the MoE architecture on
expert-specialized fine-tuning. We find that MoE models with finer-grained
experts are more advantageous in selecting the combination of experts that are
most relevant to downstream tasks, thereby enhancing both the training
efficiency and effectiveness.

---

## 2. [Diffusion Forcing: Next-token Prediction Meets Full-Sequence Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.01392)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.01392](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01392)

**Authors**: Boyuan Chen, Diego Marti Monso, Yilun Du, Max Simchowitz, Russ Tedrake, Vincent Sitzmann

**Published**: 2024-07-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-05 by Sylvestre Bcht

**Upvotes**: 44

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/leffff/diffusion-forcing)

### Abstract

This paper presents Diffusion Forcing, a new training paradigm where a
diffusion model is trained to denoise a set of tokens with independent
per-token noise levels. We apply Diffusion Forcing to sequence generative
modeling by training a causal next-token prediction model to generate one or
several future tokens without fully diffusing past ones. Our approach is shown
to combine the strengths of next-token prediction models, such as
variable-length generation, with the strengths of full-sequence diffusion
models, such as the ability to guide sampling to desirable trajectories. Our
method offers a range of additional capabilities, such as (1) rolling-out
sequences of continuous tokens, such as video, with lengths past the training
horizon, where baselines diverge and (2) new sampling and guiding schemes that
uniquely profit from Diffusion Forcing's variable-horizon and causal
architecture, and which lead to marked performance gains in decision-making and
planning tasks. In addition to its empirical success, our method is proven to
optimize a variational lower bound on the likelihoods of all subsequences of
tokens drawn from the true joint distribution. Project website:
https://boyuan.space/diffusion-forcing/

---

## 3. [Planetarium: A Rigorous Benchmark for Translating Text to Structured
  Planning Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.03321)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.03321](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.03321)

**Organization**: Bats Research

**Authors**: Max Zuo, Francisco Piedrahita Velez, Xiaochen Li, Michael L. Littman, Stephen H. Bach

**Published**: 2024-07-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-05 by Max Zuo

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/BatsResearch/planetarium)

### Abstract

Many recent works have explored using language models for planning problems.
One line of research focuses on translating natural language descriptions of
planning tasks into structured planning languages, such as the planning domain
definition language (PDDL). While this approach is promising, accurately
measuring the quality of generated PDDL code continues to pose significant
challenges. First, generated PDDL code is typically evaluated using planning
validators that check whether the problem can be solved with a planner. This
method is insufficient because a language model might generate valid PDDL code
that does not align with the natural language description of the task. Second,
existing evaluation sets often have natural language descriptions of the
planning task that closely resemble the ground truth PDDL, reducing the
challenge of the task. To bridge this gap, we introduce \benchmarkName, a
benchmark designed to evaluate language models' ability to generate PDDL code
from natural language descriptions of planning tasks. We begin by creating a
PDDL equivalence algorithm that rigorously evaluates the correctness of PDDL
code generated by language models by flexibly comparing it against a ground
truth PDDL. Then, we present a dataset of 132,037 text-to-PDDL pairs across
13 different tasks, with varying levels of difficulty. Finally, we evaluate
several API-access and open-weight language models that reveal this task's
complexity. For example, 87.6% of the PDDL problem descriptions generated by
GPT-4o are syntactically parseable, 82.2% are valid, solve-able problems,
but only 35.1% are semantically correct, highlighting the need for a more
rigorous benchmark for this problem.

---
