# Daily Papers - 2024-07-02

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-07-02)

Total papers: 27

---

## 1. [We-Math: Does Your Large Multimodal Model Achieve Human-like
  Mathematical Reasoning?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.01284)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.01284](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01284)

**Authors**: Runqi Qiao, Qiuna Tan, Guanting Dong, Minhui Wu, Chong Sun, Xiaoshuai Song, Zhuoma GongQue, Shanglin Lei, Zhe Wei, Miaoxuan Zhang, Runfeng Qiao, Yifan Zhang, Xiao Zong, Yida Xu, Muxi Diao, Zhimin Bao, Chen Li, Honggang Zhang

**Published**: 2024-07-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by KABI

**Upvotes**: 81

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/we-math/we-math)

### Abstract

Visual mathematical reasoning, as a fundamental visual reasoning ability, has
received widespread attention from the Large Multimodal Models (LMMs)
community. Existing benchmarks, such as MathVista and MathVerse, focus more on
the result-oriented performance but neglect the underlying principles in
knowledge acquisition and generalization. Inspired by human-like mathematical
reasoning, we introduce WE-MATH, the first benchmark specifically designed to
explore the problem-solving principles beyond end-to-end performance. We
meticulously collect and categorize 6.5K visual math problems, spanning 67
hierarchical knowledge concepts and five layers of knowledge granularity. We
decompose composite problems into sub-problems according to the required
knowledge concepts and introduce a novel four-dimensional metric, namely
Insufficient Knowledge (IK), Inadequate Generalization (IG), Complete Mastery
(CM), and Rote Memorization (RM), to hierarchically assess inherent issues in
LMMs' reasoning process. With WE-MATH, we conduct a thorough evaluation of
existing LMMs in visual mathematical reasoning and reveal a negative
correlation between solving steps and problem-specific performance. We confirm
the IK issue of LMMs can be effectively improved via knowledge augmentation
strategies. More notably, the primary challenge of GPT-4o has significantly
transitioned from IK to IG, establishing it as the first LMM advancing towards
the knowledge generalization stage. In contrast, other LMMs exhibit a marked
inclination towards Rote Memorization - they correctly solve composite problems
involving multiple knowledge concepts yet fail to answer sub-problems. We
anticipate that WE-MATH will open new pathways for advancements in visual
mathematical reasoning for LMMs. The WE-MATH data and evaluation code are
available at https://github.com/We-Math/We-Math.

---

## 2. [ROS-LLM: A ROS framework for embodied AI with task feedback and
  structured reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.19741)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.19741](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.19741)

**Authors**: Christopher E. Mower, Yuhui Wan, Hongzhan Yu, Antoine Grosnit, Jonas Gonzalez-Billandon, Matthieu Zimmer, Jinlong Wang, Xinyu Zhang, Yao Zhao, Anbang Zhai, Puze Liu, Davide Tateo, Cesar Cadena, Marco Hutter, Jan Peters, Guangjian Tian, Yuzheng Zhuang, Kun Shao, Xingyue Quan, Jianye Hao, Jun Wang, Haitham Bou-Ammar

**Published**: 2024-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Haitham Bou Ammar

**Upvotes**: 60

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/huawei-noah/hebo)

### Abstract

We present a framework for intuitive robot programming by non-experts,
leveraging natural language prompts and contextual information from the Robot
Operating System (ROS). Our system integrates large language models (LLMs),
enabling non-experts to articulate task requirements to the system through a
chat interface. Key features of the framework include: integration of ROS with
an AI agent connected to a plethora of open-source and commercial LLMs,
automatic extraction of a behavior from the LLM output and execution of ROS
actions/services, support for three behavior modes (sequence, behavior tree,
state machine), imitation learning for adding new robot actions to the library
of possible actions, and LLM reflection via human and environment feedback.
Extensive experiments validate the framework, showcasing robustness,
scalability, and versatility in diverse scenarios, including long-horizon
tasks, tabletop rearrangements, and remote supervisory control. To facilitate
the adoption of our framework and support the reproduction of our results, we
have made our code open-source. You can access it at:
https://github.com/huawei-noah/HEBO/tree/master/ROSLLM.

---

## 3. [ColPali: Efficient Document Retrieval with Vision Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.01449)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.01449](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01449)

**Authors**: Manuel Faysse, Hugues Sibille, Tony Wu, Gautier Viaud, Céline Hudelot, Pierre Colombo

**Published**: 2024-06-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Manuel Faysse

**Upvotes**: 51

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/illuin-tech/colpali) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/vidore)

### Abstract

Documents are visually rich structures that convey information through text,
as well as tables, figures, page layouts, or fonts. While modern document
retrieval systems exhibit strong performance on query-to-text matching, they
struggle to exploit visual cues efficiently, hindering their performance on
practical document retrieval applications such as Retrieval Augmented
Generation. To benchmark current systems on visually rich document retrieval,
we introduce the Visual Document Retrieval Benchmark ViDoRe, composed of
various page-level retrieving tasks spanning multiple domains, languages, and
settings. The inherent shortcomings of modern systems motivate the introduction
of a new retrieval model architecture, ColPali, which leverages the document
understanding capabilities of recent Vision Language Models to produce
high-quality contextualized embeddings solely from images of document pages.
Combined with a late interaction matching mechanism, ColPali largely
outperforms modern document retrieval pipelines while being drastically faster
and end-to-end trainable.

---

## 4. [RegMix: Data Mixture as Regression for Language Model Pre-training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.01492)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.01492](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01492)

**Authors**: Qian Liu, Xiaosen Zheng, Niklas Muennighoff, Guangtao Zeng, Longxu Dou, Tianyu Pang, Jing Jiang, Min Lin

**Published**: 2024-07-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Qian Liu

**Upvotes**: 40

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sail-sg/regmix)

### Abstract

The data mixture for large language model pre-training significantly impacts
performance, yet how to determine an effective mixture remains unclear. We
propose RegMix to automatically identify a high-performing data mixture by
formulating it as a regression task. RegMix involves training a set of small
models with diverse data mixtures and fitting a regression model to predict
their performance given their respective mixtures. With the fitted regression
model, we simulate the top-ranked mixture and use it to train a large-scale
model with orders of magnitude more compute. To empirically validate RegMix, we
train 512 models with 1M parameters for 1B tokens of different mixtures to fit
the regression model and find the optimal mixture. Using this mixture we train
a 1B parameter model for 25B tokens (i.e. 1000x larger and 25x longer) which we
find performs best among 64 candidate 1B parameter models with other mixtures.
Further, our method demonstrates superior performance compared to human
selection and achieves results that match or surpass DoReMi, while utilizing
only 10% of the compute budget. Our experiments also show that (1) Data
mixtures significantly impact performance with single-task performance
variations of up to 14.6%; (2) Web corpora rather than data perceived as
high-quality like Wikipedia have the strongest positive correlation with
downstream performance; (3) Domains interact in complex ways often
contradicting common sense, thus automatic approaches like RegMix are needed;
(4) Data mixture effects transcend scaling laws, and our approach captures the
complexity by considering all domains together. Our code is available at
https://github.com/sail-sg/regmix.

---

## 5. [LiteSearch: Efficacious Tree Search for LLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00320)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00320](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00320)

**Authors**: Ante Wang, Linfeng Song, Ye Tian, Baolin Peng, Dian Yu, Haitao Mi, Jinsong Su, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2024-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Linfeng Song

**Upvotes**: 40

### Abstract

Recent research suggests that tree search algorithms (e.g. Monte Carlo Tree
Search) can dramatically boost LLM performance on complex mathematical
reasoning tasks. However, they often require more than 10 times the
computational resources of greedy decoding due to wasteful search strategies,
making them difficult to be deployed in practical applications. This study
introduces a novel guided tree search algorithm with dynamic node selection and
node-level exploration budget (maximum number of children) calculation to
tackle this issue. By considering the search progress towards the final answer
(history) and the guidance from a value network (future) trained without any
step-wise annotations, our algorithm iteratively selects the most promising
tree node before expanding it within the boundaries of the allocated
computational budget. Experiments conducted on the GSM8K and TabMWP datasets
demonstrate that our approach not only offers competitive performance but also
enjoys significantly lower computational costs compared to baseline methods.

---

## 6. [MMEvalPro: Calibrating Multimodal Benchmarks Towards Trustworthy and
  Efficient Evaluation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00468)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00468](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00468)

**Authors**: Jinsheng Huang, Liang Chen, Taian Guo, Fu Zeng, Yusheng Zhao, Bohan Wu, Ye Yuan, Haozhe Zhao, Zhihui Guo, Yichi Zhang, Jingyang Yuan, Wei Ju, Luchen Liu, Tianyu Liu, Baobao Chang, Ming Zhang

**Published**: 2024-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Liang Chen

**Upvotes**: 35

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/chenllliang/mmevalpro)

### Abstract

Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) exhibit impressive cross-modal understanding
and reasoning abilities, often assessed through multiple-choice questions
(MCQs) that include an image, a question, and several options. However, many
benchmarks used for such evaluations suffer from systematic biases. Remarkably,
Large Language Models (LLMs) without any visual perception capabilities achieve
non-trivial performance, undermining the credibility of these evaluations. To
address this issue while maintaining the efficiency of MCQ evaluations, we
propose MMEvalPro, a benchmark designed to avoid Type-I errors through a
trilogy evaluation pipeline and more rigorous metrics. For each original
question from existing benchmarks, human annotators augment it by creating one
perception question and one knowledge anchor question through a meticulous
annotation process. MMEvalPro comprises 2,138 question triplets, totaling
6,414 distinct questions. Two-thirds of these questions are manually labeled
by human experts, while the rest are sourced from existing benchmarks (MMMU,
ScienceQA, and MathVista). Compared with the existing benchmarks, our
experiments with the latest LLMs and LMMs demonstrate that MMEvalPro is more
challenging (the best LMM lags behind human performance by 31.73%, compared
to an average gap of 8.03% in previous benchmarks) and more trustworthy (the
best LLM trails the best LMM by 23.09%, whereas the gap for previous
benchmarks is just 14.64%). Our in-depth analysis explains the reason for
the large performance gap and justifies the trustworthiness of evaluation,
underscoring its significant potential for advancing future research.

---

## 7. [Wavelets Are All You Need for Autoregressive Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.19997)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.19997](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.19997)

**Authors**: Wael Mattar, Idan Levy, Nir Sharon, Shai Dekel

**Published**: 2024-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Idan Levy

**Upvotes**: 31

### Abstract

In this paper, we take a new approach to autoregressive image generation that
is based on two main ingredients. The first is wavelet image coding, which
allows to tokenize the visual details of an image from coarse to fine details
by ordering the information starting with the most significant bits of the most
significant wavelet coefficients. The second is a variant of a language
transformer whose architecture is re-designed and optimized for token sequences
in this 'wavelet language'. The transformer learns the significant statistical
correlations within a token sequence, which are the manifestations of
well-known correlations between the wavelet subbands at various resolutions. We
show experimental results with conditioning on the generation process.

---

## 8. [DiffIR2VR-Zero: Zero-Shot Video Restoration with Diffusion-based Image
  Restoration Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.01519)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.01519](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01519)

**Authors**: Chang-Han Yeh, Chin-Yang Lin, Zhixiang Wang, Chi-Wei Hsiao, Ting-Hsuan Chen, Yu-Lun Liu

**Published**: 2024-07-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Ting-Hsuan Chen

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jimmycv07/DiffIR2VR-Zero) | [Project Page](https://jimmycv07.github.io/DiffIR2VR_web/)

### Abstract

This paper introduces a method for zero-shot video restoration using
pre-trained image restoration diffusion models. Traditional video restoration
methods often need retraining for different settings and struggle with limited
generalization across various degradation types and datasets. Our approach uses
a hierarchical token merging strategy for keyframes and local frames, combined
with a hybrid correspondence mechanism that blends optical flow and
feature-based nearest neighbor matching (latent merging). We show that our
method not only achieves top performance in zero-shot video restoration but
also significantly surpasses trained models in generalization across diverse
datasets and extreme degradations (8times super-resolution and high-standard
deviation video denoising). We present evidence through quantitative metrics
and visual comparisons on various challenging datasets. Additionally, our
technique works with any 2D restoration diffusion model, offering a versatile
and powerful tool for video enhancement tasks without extensive retraining.
This research leads to more efficient and widely applicable video restoration
technologies, supporting advancements in fields that require high-quality video
output. See our project page for video results at
https://jimmycv07.github.io/DiffIR2VR_web/.

---

## 9. [Step-Controlled DPO: Leveraging Stepwise Error for Enhanced Mathematical
  Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00782)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00782](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00782)

**Authors**: Zimu Lu, Aojun Zhou, Ke Wang, Houxing Ren, Weikang Shi, Junting Pan, Mingjie Zhan

**Published**: 2024-06-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by AJ.Zhou

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mathllm/Step-Controlled_DPO)

### Abstract

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) has proven effective at improving the
performance of large language models (LLMs) on downstream tasks such as
reasoning and alignment. In this work, we propose Step-Controlled DPO (SCDPO),
a method for automatically providing stepwise error supervision by creating
negative samples of mathematical reasoning rationales that start making errors
at a specified step. By applying these samples in DPO training, SCDPO can
better align the model to understand reasoning errors and output accurate
reasoning steps. We apply SCDPO to both code-integrated and chain-of-thought
solutions, empirically showing that it consistently improves the performance
compared to naive DPO on three different SFT models, including one existing SFT
model and two models we finetuned. Qualitative analysis of the credit
assignment of SCDPO and DPO demonstrates the effectiveness of SCDPO at
identifying errors in mathematical solutions. We then apply SCDPO to an
InternLM2-20B model, resulting in a 20B model that achieves high scores of
88.5% on GSM8K and 58.1% on MATH, rivaling all other open-source LLMs, showing
the great potential of our method.

---

## 10. [InstantStyle-Plus: Style Transfer with Content-Preserving in
  Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00788)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00788](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00788)

**Authors**: Haofan Wang, Peng Xing, Renyuan Huang, Hao Ai, Qixun Wang, Xu Bai

**Published**: 2024-06-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Haofan Wang

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/instantX-research/InstantStyle-Plus) | [Project Page](https://instantstyle-plus.github.io/)

### Abstract

Style transfer is an inventive process designed to create an image that
maintains the essence of the original while embracing the visual style of
another. Although diffusion models have demonstrated impressive generative
power in personalized subject-driven or style-driven applications, existing
state-of-the-art methods still encounter difficulties in achieving a seamless
balance between content preservation and style enhancement. For example,
amplifying the style's influence can often undermine the structural integrity
of the content. To address these challenges, we deconstruct the style transfer
task into three core elements: 1) Style, focusing on the image's aesthetic
characteristics; 2) Spatial Structure, concerning the geometric arrangement and
composition of visual elements; and 3) Semantic Content, which captures the
conceptual meaning of the image. Guided by these principles, we introduce
InstantStyle-Plus, an approach that prioritizes the integrity of the original
content while seamlessly integrating the target style. Specifically, our method
accomplishes style injection through an efficient, lightweight process,
utilizing the cutting-edge InstantStyle framework. To reinforce the content
preservation, we initiate the process with an inverted content latent noise and
a versatile plug-and-play tile ControlNet for preserving the original image's
intrinsic layout. We also incorporate a global semantic adapter to enhance the
semantic content's fidelity. To safeguard against the dilution of style
information, a style extractor is employed as discriminator for providing
supplementary style guidance. Codes will be available at
https://github.com/instantX-research/InstantStyle-Plus.

---

## 11. [Is It Really Long Context if All You Need Is Retrieval? Towards
  Genuinely Difficult Long Context NLP](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00402)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00402](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00402)

**Authors**: Omer Goldman, Alon Jacovi, Aviv Slobodkin, Aviya Maimon, Ido Dagan, Reut Tsarfaty

**Published**: 2024-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by omer goldman

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Improvements in language models' capabilities have pushed their applications
towards longer contexts, making long-context evaluation and development an
active research area. However, many disparate use-cases are grouped together
under the umbrella term of "long-context", defined simply by the total length
of the model's input, including - for example - Needle-in-a-Haystack tasks,
book summarization, and information aggregation. Given their varied difficulty,
in this position paper we argue that conflating different tasks by their
context length is unproductive. As a community, we require a more precise
vocabulary to understand what makes long-context tasks similar or different. We
propose to unpack the taxonomy of long-context based on the properties that
make them more difficult with longer contexts. We propose two orthogonal axes
of difficulty: (I) Diffusion: How hard is it to find the necessary information
in the context? (II) Scope: How much necessary information is there to find? We
survey the literature on long-context, provide justification for this taxonomy
as an informative descriptor, and situate the literature with respect to it. We
conclude that the most difficult and interesting settings, whose necessary
information is very long and highly diffused within the input, is severely
under-explored. By using a descriptive vocabulary and discussing the relevant
properties of difficulty in long-context, we can implement more informed
research in this area. We call for a careful design of tasks and benchmarks
with distinctly long context, taking into account the characteristics that make
it qualitatively different from shorter context.

---

## 12. [E2 TTS: Embarrassingly Easy Fully Non-Autoregressive Zero-Shot TTS](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18009)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18009](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18009)

**Authors**: Sefik Emre Eskimez, Xiaofei Wang, Manthan Thakker, Canrun Li, Chung-Hsien Tsai, Zhen Xiao, Hemin Yang, Zirun Zhu, Min Tang, Xu Tan, Yanqing Liu, Sheng Zhao, Naoyuki Kanda

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Naoyuki Kanda

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/e2tts-test-suite)

### Abstract

This paper introduces Embarrassingly Easy Text-to-Speech (E2 TTS), a fully
non-autoregressive zero-shot text-to-speech system that offers human-level
naturalness and state-of-the-art speaker similarity and intelligibility. In the
E2 TTS framework, the text input is converted into a character sequence with
filler tokens. The flow-matching-based mel spectrogram generator is then
trained based on the audio infilling task. Unlike many previous works, it does
not require additional components (e.g., duration model, grapheme-to-phoneme)
or complex techniques (e.g., monotonic alignment search). Despite its
simplicity, E2 TTS achieves state-of-the-art zero-shot TTS capabilities that
are comparable to or surpass previous works, including Voicebox and
NaturalSpeech 3. The simplicity of E2 TTS also allows for flexibility in the
input representation. We propose several variants of E2 TTS to improve
usability during inference. See https://aka.ms/e2tts/ for demo samples.

---

## 13. [RealTalk: Real-time and Realistic Audio-driven Face Generation with 3D
  Facial Prior-guided Identity Alignment Network](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18284)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18284](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18284)

**Authors**: Xiaozhong Ji, Chuming Lin, Zhonggan Ding, Ying Tai, Jian Yang, Junwei Zhu, Xiaobin Hu, Jiangning Zhang, Donghao Luo, Chengjie Wang

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Ying Tai

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Person-generic audio-driven face generation is a challenging task in computer
vision. Previous methods have achieved remarkable progress in audio-visual
synchronization, but there is still a significant gap between current results
and practical applications. The challenges are two-fold: 1) Preserving unique
individual traits for achieving high-precision lip synchronization. 2)
Generating high-quality facial renderings in real-time performance. In this
paper, we propose a novel generalized audio-driven framework RealTalk, which
consists of an audio-to-expression transformer and a high-fidelity
expression-to-face renderer. In the first component, we consider both identity
and intra-personal variation features related to speaking lip movements. By
incorporating cross-modal attention on the enriched facial priors, we can
effectively align lip movements with audio, thus attaining greater precision in
expression prediction. In the second component, we design a lightweight facial
identity alignment (FIA) module which includes a lip-shape control structure
and a face texture reference structure. This novel design allows us to generate
fine details in real-time, without depending on sophisticated and inefficient
feature alignment modules. Our experimental results, both quantitative and
qualitative, on public datasets demonstrate the clear advantages of our method
in terms of lip-speech synchronization and generation quality. Furthermore, our
method is efficient and requires fewer computational resources, making it
well-suited to meet the needs of practical applications.

---

## 14. [MIRAI: Evaluating LLM Agents for Event Forecasting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.01231)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.01231](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01231)

**Authors**: Chenchen Ye, Ziniu Hu, Yihe Deng, Zijie Huang, Mingyu Derek Ma, Yanqiao Zhu, Wei Wang

**Published**: 2024-07-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Yihe Deng

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have empowered LLM agents
to autonomously collect world information, over which to conduct reasoning to
solve complex problems. Given this capability, increasing interests have been
put into employing LLM agents for predicting international events, which can
influence decision-making and shape policy development on an international
scale. Despite such a growing interest, there is a lack of a rigorous benchmark
of LLM agents' forecasting capability and reliability. To address this gap, we
introduce MIRAI, a novel benchmark designed to systematically evaluate LLM
agents as temporal forecasters in the context of international events. Our
benchmark features an agentic environment with tools for accessing an extensive
database of historical, structured events and textual news articles. We refine
the GDELT event database with careful cleaning and parsing to curate a series
of relational prediction tasks with varying forecasting horizons, assessing LLM
agents' abilities from short-term to long-term forecasting. We further
implement APIs to enable LLM agents to utilize different tools via a code-based
interface. In summary, MIRAI comprehensively evaluates the agents' capabilities
in three dimensions: 1) autonomously source and integrate critical information
from large global databases; 2) write codes using domain-specific APIs and
libraries for tool-use; and 3) jointly reason over historical knowledge from
diverse formats and time to accurately predict future events. Through
comprehensive benchmarking, we aim to establish a reliable framework for
assessing the capabilities of LLM agents in forecasting international events,
thereby contributing to the development of more accurate and trustworthy models
for international relation analysis.

---

## 15. [Chain-of-Knowledge: Integrating Knowledge Reasoning into Large Language Models by Learning from Knowledge Graphs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00653)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00653](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00653)

**Authors**: Xintao Wang, Jiaqing Liang, Sirui Xia, Lida Chen, Yanghua Xiao

**Published**: 2024-06-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Xintao Wang

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have exhibited impressive proficiency in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, which involve increasingly complex reasoning. Knowledge reasoning, a primary type of reasoning, aims at deriving new knowledge from existing one.While it has been widely studied in the context of knowledge graphs (KGs), knowledge reasoning in LLMs remains underexplored. In this paper, we introduce Chain-of-Knowledge, a comprehensive framework for knowledge reasoning, including methodologies for both dataset construction and model learning. For dataset construction, we create KnowReason via rule mining on KGs. For model learning, we observe rule overfitting induced by naive training. Hence, we enhance CoK with a trial-and-error mechanism that simulates the human process of internal knowledge exploration. We conduct extensive experiments with KnowReason. Our results show the effectiveness of CoK in refining LLMs in not only knowledge reasoning, but also general reasoning benchmarkms.

---

## 16. [Auto Cherry-Picker: Learning from High-quality Generative Data Driven by
  Language](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.20085)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.20085](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.20085)

**Authors**: Yicheng Chen, Xiangtai Li, Yanhong Zeng, Jianzong Wu, Xiangyu Zhao, Kai Chen

**Published**: 2024-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Xiangtai Li

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Diffusion-based models have shown great potential in generating high-quality
images with various layouts, which can benefit downstream perception tasks.
However, a fully automatic layout generation driven only by language and a
suitable metric for measuring multiple generated instances has not been well
explored. In this work, we present Auto Cherry-Picker (ACP), a novel framework
that generates high-quality multi-modal training examples to augment perception
and multi-modal training. Starting with a simple list of natural language
concepts, we prompt large language models (LLMs) to generate a detailed
description and design reasonable layouts. Next, we use an off-the-shelf
text-to-image model to generate multiple images. Then, the generated data are
refined using a comprehensively designed metric to ensure quality. In
particular, we present a new metric, Composite Layout and Image Score (CLIS),
to evaluate the generated images fairly. Our synthetic high-quality examples
boost performance in various scenarios by customizing the initial concept list,
especially in addressing challenges associated with long-tailed distribution
and imbalanced datasets. Experiment results on downstream tasks demonstrate
that Auto Cherry-Picker can significantly improve the performance of existing
models. In addition, we have thoroughly investigated the correlation between
CLIS and performance gains in downstream tasks, and we find that a better CLIS
score results in better performance. This finding shows the potential for
evaluation metrics as the role for various visual perception and MLLM tasks.
Code will be available.

---

## 17. [OmniJARVIS: Unified Vision-Language-Action Tokenization Enables
  Open-World Instruction Following Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00114)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00114](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00114)

**Authors**: Zihao Wang, Shaofei Cai, Zhancun Mu, Haowei Lin, Ceyao Zhang, Xuejie Liu, Qing Li, Anji Liu, Xiaojian Ma, Yitao Liang

**Published**: 2024-06-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Zihao Wang

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

We present OmniJARVIS, a novel Vision-Language-Action (VLA) model for
open-world instruction-following agents in open-world Minecraft. Compared to
prior works that either emit textual goals to separate controllers or produce
the control command directly, OmniJARVIS seeks a different path to ensure both
strong reasoning and efficient decision-making capabilities via unified
tokenization of multimodal interaction data. First, we introduce a
self-supervised approach to learn a behavior encoder that produces discretized
tokens for behavior trajectories tau = {o_0, a_0, dots} and an
imitation learning (IL) policy decoder conditioned on these tokens. These
additional behavior tokens will be augmented to the vocabulary of pretrained
Multimodal Language Models (MLMs). With this encoder, we then pack long-term
multimodal interactions involving task instructions, memories, thoughts,
observations, textual responses, behavior trajectories, etc. into unified token
sequences and model them with autoregressive transformers. Thanks to the
semantically meaningful behavior tokens, the resulting VLA model, OmniJARVIS,
can reason (by producing chain-of-thoughts), plan, answer questions, and act
(by producing behavior tokens for the IL policy decoder). OmniJARVIS
demonstrates excellent performances on a comprehensive collection of atomic,
programmatic, and open-ended tasks in open-world Minecraft. Our analysis
further unveils the crucial design principles in interaction data formation,
unified tokenization, and its scaling potentials.

---

## 18. [T-MAC: CPU Renaissance via Table Lookup for Low-Bit LLM Deployment on
  Edge](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00088)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00088](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00088)

**Authors**: Jianyu Wei, Ting Cao, Lingxiao Ma, Lei Wang, Yanyong Zhang, Mao Yang

**Published**: 2024-06-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Cao

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/t-mac)

### Abstract

The deployment of Large Language Models (LLMs) on edge devices is
increasingly important to enhance on-device intelligence. Weight quantization
is crucial for reducing the memory footprint of LLMs on devices. However,
low-bit LLMs necessitate mixed precision matrix multiplication (mpGEMM) of low
precision weights and high precision activations during inference. Existing
systems, lacking native support for mpGEMM, resort to dequantize weights for
high precision computation. Such an indirect way can lead to a significant
inference overhead.
  In this paper, we introduce T-MAC, an innovative lookup table(LUT)-based
method designed for efficient low-bit LLM (i.e., weight-quantized LLM)
inference on CPUs. T-MAC directly supports mpGEMM without dequantization, while
simultaneously eliminating multiplications and reducing additions required.
Specifically, T-MAC transforms the traditional data-type-centric multiplication
to bit-wise table lookup, and enables a unified and scalable mpGEMM solution.
  Our LUT-based kernels scale linearly to the weight bit-width. Evaluated on
low-bit Llama and BitNet models, T-MAC demonstrates up to 4x increase in
throughput and 70% reduction in energy consumption compared to llama.cpp. For
BitNet-b1.58-3B, T-MAC delivers a token generation throughput of 30 tokens/s
with a single core and 71 tokens/s with eight cores on M2-Ultra, and 11
tokens/s on lower-end devices like Raspberry Pi 5, which significantly exceeds
the adult average reading speed. T-MAC with LUT-based computing paradigm, paves
the way for the practical deployment of low-bit LLMs on resource-constrained
edge devices without compromising computational efficiency. The system is
open-sourced at https://github.com/microsoft/T-MAC.

---

## 19. [Towards Robust Speech Representation Learning for Thousands of Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00837)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00837](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00837)

**Authors**: William Chen, Wangyou Zhang, Yifan Peng, Xinjian Li, Jinchuan Tian, Jiatong Shi, Xuankai Chang, Soumi Maiti, Karen Livescu, Shinji Watanabe

**Published**: 2024-06-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by William Chen

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Self-supervised learning (SSL) has helped extend speech technologies to more
languages by reducing the need for labeled data. However, models are still far
from supporting the world's 7000+ languages. We propose XEUS, a Cross-lingual
Encoder for Universal Speech, trained on over 1 million hours of data across
4057 languages, extending the language coverage of SSL models 4-fold. We
combine 1 million hours of speech from existing publicly accessible corpora
with a newly created corpus of 7400+ hours from 4057 languages, which will be
publicly released. To handle the diverse conditions of multilingual speech
data, we augment the typical SSL masked prediction approach with a novel
dereverberation objective, increasing robustness. We evaluate XEUS on several
benchmarks, and show that it consistently outperforms or achieves comparable
results to state-of-the-art (SOTA) SSL models across a variety of tasks. XEUS
sets a new SOTA on the ML-SUPERB benchmark: it outperforms MMS 1B and w2v-BERT
2.0 v2 by 0.8% and 4.4% respectively, despite having less parameters or
pre-training data. Checkpoints, code, and data are found in
https://www.wavlab.org/activities/2024/xeus/.

---

## 20. [SVG: 3D Stereoscopic Video Generation via Denoising Frame Matrix](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00367)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00367](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00367)

**Authors**: Peng Dai, Feitong Tan, Qiangeng Xu, David Futschik, Ruofei Du, Sean Fanello, Xiaojuan Qi, Yinda Zhang

**Published**: 2024-06-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Video generation models have demonstrated great capabilities of producing
impressive monocular videos, however, the generation of 3D stereoscopic video
remains under-explored. We propose a pose-free and training-free approach for
generating 3D stereoscopic videos using an off-the-shelf monocular video
generation model. Our method warps a generated monocular video into camera
views on stereoscopic baseline using estimated video depth, and employs a novel
frame matrix video inpainting framework. The framework leverages the video
generation model to inpaint frames observed from different timestamps and
views. This effective approach generates consistent and semantically coherent
stereoscopic videos without scene optimization or model fine-tuning. Moreover,
we develop a disocclusion boundary re-injection scheme that further improves
the quality of video inpainting by alleviating the negative effects propagated
from disoccluded areas in the latent space. We validate the efficacy of our
proposed method by conducting experiments on videos from various generative
models, including Sora [4 ], Lumiere [2], WALT [8 ], and Zeroscope [ 42]. The
experiments demonstrate that our method has a significant improvement over
previous methods. The code will be released at
https://daipengwa.github.io/SVG_ProjectPage.

---

## 21. [Show Less, Instruct More: Enriching Prompts with Definitions and
  Guidelines for Zero-Shot NER](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.01272)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.01272](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01272)

**Authors**: Andrew Zamai, Andrea Zugarini, Leonardo Rigutini, Marco Ernandes, Marco Maggini

**Published**: 2024-07-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/andrewzamai/SLIMER)

### Abstract

Recently, several specialized instruction-tuned Large Language Models (LLMs)
for Named Entity Recognition (NER) have emerged. Compared to traditional NER
approaches, these models have strong generalization capabilities. Existing LLMs
mainly focus on zero-shot NER in out-of-domain distributions, being fine-tuned
on an extensive number of entity classes that often highly or completely
overlap with test sets. In this work instead, we propose SLIMER, an approach
designed to tackle never-seen-before named entity tags by instructing the model
on fewer examples, and by leveraging a prompt enriched with definition and
guidelines. Experiments demonstrate that definition and guidelines yield better
performance, faster and more robust learning, particularly when labelling
unseen Named Entities. Furthermore, SLIMER performs comparably to
state-of-the-art approaches in out-of-domain zero-shot NER, while being trained
on a reduced tag set.

---

## 22. [DogeRM: Equipping Reward Models with Domain Knowledge through Model
  Merging](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.01470)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.01470](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01470)

**Authors**: Tzu-Han Lin, Chen-An Li, Hung-yi Lee, Yun-Nung Chen

**Published**: 2024-07-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Tzu-Han Lin

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/miulab/dogerm)

### Abstract

Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) is a popular strategy for
aligning large language models (LLMs) with desired behaviors. Reward modeling
is a crucial step in RLHF. However, collecting paired preference data for
training reward models is often costly and time-consuming, especially for
domain-specific preferences requiring expert annotation. To address this
challenge, we propose the Domain knowledge merged
Reward Model (DogeRM), a novel framework that integrates
domain-specific knowledge into a general reward model by model merging. The
experiments demonstrate that DogeRM enhances performance across different
benchmarks and provide a detailed analysis showcasing the effects of model
merging, showing the great potential of facilitating model alignment.

---

## 23. [Token Erasure as a Footprint of Implicit Vocabulary Items in LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.20086)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.20086](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.20086)

**Authors**: Sheridan Feucht, David Atkinson, Byron Wallace, David Bau

**Published**: 2024-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Gabriele Sarti

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

LLMs process text as sequences of tokens that roughly correspond to words,
where less common words are represented by multiple tokens. However, individual
tokens are often semantically unrelated to the meanings of the words/concepts
they comprise. For example, Llama-2-7b's tokenizer splits the word
"northeastern" into the tokens ['_n', 'ort', 'he', 'astern'], none of which
correspond to semantically meaningful units like "north" or "east." Similarly,
the overall meanings of named entities like "Neil Young" and multi-word
expressions like "break a leg" cannot be directly inferred from their
constituent tokens. Mechanistically, how do LLMs convert such arbitrary groups
of tokens into useful higher-level representations? In this work, we find that
last token representations of named entities and multi-token words exhibit a
pronounced "erasure" effect, where information about previous and current
tokens is rapidly forgotten in early layers. Using this observation, we propose
a method to "read out" the implicit vocabulary of an autoregressive LLM by
examining differences in token representations across layers, and present
results of this method for Llama-2-7b and Llama-3-8B. To our knowledge, this is
the first attempt to probe the implicit vocabulary of an LLM.

---

## 24. [Accurate Prediction of Ligand-Protein Interaction Affinities with
  Fine-Tuned Small Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00111)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00111](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00111)

**Authors**: 

**Published**: 2024-06-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by BF

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

We describe the accurate prediction of ligand-protein interaction (LPI)
affinities, also known as drug-target interactions (DTI), with instruction
fine-tuned pretrained generative small language models (SLMs). We achieved
accurate predictions for a range of affinity values associated with
ligand-protein interactions on out-of-sample data in a zero-shot setting. Only
the SMILES string of the ligand and the amino acid sequence of the protein were
used as the model inputs. Our results demonstrate a clear improvement over
machine learning (ML) and free-energy perturbation (FEP+) based methods in
accurately predicting a range of ligand-protein interaction affinities, which
can be leveraged to further accelerate drug discovery campaigns against
challenging therapeutic targets.

---

## 25. [UnUnlearning: Unlearning is not sufficient for content regulation in
  advanced generative AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00106)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00106](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00106)

**Authors**: Ilia Shumailov, Jamie Hayes, Eleni Triantafillou, Guillermo Ortiz-Jimenez, Nicolas Papernot, Matthew Jagielski, Itay Yona, Heidi Howard, Eugene Bagdasaryan

**Published**: 2024-06-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by i

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Exact unlearning was first introduced as a privacy mechanism that allowed a
user to retract their data from machine learning models on request. Shortly
after, inexact schemes were proposed to mitigate the impractical costs
associated with exact unlearning. More recently unlearning is often discussed
as an approach for removal of impermissible knowledge i.e. knowledge that the
model should not possess such as unlicensed copyrighted, inaccurate, or
malicious information. The promise is that if the model does not have a certain
malicious capability, then it cannot be used for the associated malicious
purpose. In this paper we revisit the paradigm in which unlearning is used for
in Large Language Models (LLMs) and highlight an underlying inconsistency
arising from in-context learning. Unlearning can be an effective control
mechanism for the training phase, yet it does not prevent the model from
performing an impermissible act during inference. We introduce a concept of
ununlearning, where unlearned knowledge gets reintroduced in-context,
effectively rendering the model capable of behaving as if it knows the
forgotten knowledge. As a result, we argue that content filtering for
impermissible knowledge will be required and even exact unlearning schemes are
not enough for effective content regulation. We discuss feasibility of
ununlearning for modern LLMs and examine broader implications.

---

## 26. [The SIFo Benchmark: Investigating the Sequential Instruction Following
  Ability of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.19999)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.19999](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.19999)

**Authors**: Xinyi Chen, Baohao Liao, Jirui Qi, Panagiotis Eustratiadis, Christof Monz, Arianna Bisazza, Maarten de Rijke

**Published**: 2024-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Jirui Qi

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/shin-ee-chen/SIFo)

### Abstract

Following multiple instructions is a crucial ability for large language
models (LLMs). Evaluating this ability comes with significant challenges: (i)
limited coherence between multiple instructions, (ii) positional bias where the
order of instructions affects model performance, and (iii) a lack of
objectively verifiable tasks. To address these issues, we introduce a benchmark
designed to evaluate models' abilities to follow multiple instructions through
sequential instruction following (SIFo) tasks. In SIFo, the successful
completion of multiple instructions is verifiable by examining only the final
instruction. Our benchmark evaluates instruction following using four tasks
(text modification, question answering, mathematics, and security rule
following), each assessing different aspects of sequential instruction
following. Our evaluation of popular LLMs, both closed-source and open-source,
shows that more recent and larger models significantly outperform their older
and smaller counterparts on the SIFo tasks, validating the benchmark's
effectiveness. All models struggle with following sequences of instructions,
hinting at an important lack of robustness of today's language models.

---

## 27. [ProgressGym: Alignment with a Millennium of Moral Progress](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.20087)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.20087](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.20087)

**Authors**: Tianyi Qiu, Yang Zhang, Xuchuan Huang, Jasmine Xinze Li, Jiaming Ji, Yaodong Yang

**Published**: 2024-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-02 by Tianyi Qiu

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pku-alignment/progressgym)

### Abstract

Frontier AI systems, including large language models (LLMs), hold increasing
influence over the epistemology of human users. Such influence can reinforce
prevailing societal values, potentially contributing to the lock-in of
misguided moral beliefs and, consequently, the perpetuation of problematic
moral practices on a broad scale. We introduce progress alignment as a
technical solution to mitigate this imminent risk. Progress alignment
algorithms learn to emulate the mechanics of human moral progress, thereby
addressing the susceptibility of existing alignment methods to contemporary
moral blindspots. To empower research in progress alignment, we introduce
ProgressGym, an experimental framework allowing the learning of moral progress
mechanics from history, in order to facilitate future progress in real-world
moral decisions. Leveraging 9 centuries of historical text and 18 historical
LLMs, ProgressGym enables codification of real-world progress alignment
challenges into concrete benchmarks. Specifically, we introduce three core
challenges: tracking evolving values (PG-Follow), preemptively anticipating
moral progress (PG-Predict), and regulating the feedback loop between human and
AI value shifts (PG-Coevolve). Alignment methods without a temporal dimension
are inapplicable to these tasks. In response, we present lifelong and
extrapolative algorithms as baseline methods of progress alignment, and build
an open leaderboard soliciting novel algorithms and challenges. The framework
and the leaderboard are available at
https://github.com/PKU-Alignment/ProgressGym and
https://huggingface.co/spaces/PKU-Alignment/ProgressGym-LeaderBoard
respectively.

---
