# Daily Papers - 2024-07-16

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-07-16)

Total papers: 16

---

## 1. [Qwen2 Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10671)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10671](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10671)

**Authors**: An Yang, Baosong Yang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Zhou, Chengpeng Li, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Guanting Dong, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang, Jialin Wang, Jian Yang, Jianwei Zhang, Jin Xu, Jingren Zhou, Jinze Bai, Jinzheng He, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Chen, Kexin Yang, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Na Ni, Pei Zhang, Peng Wang, Ru Peng, Rui Men, Ruize Gao, Runji Lin, Shijie Wang, Shuai Bai, Sinan Tan, Tianhang Zhu, Tianhao Li, Tianyu Liu, Wenbin Ge, Xiaodong Deng, Xiaohuan Zhou, Xingzhang Ren, Xinyu Zhang, Xipin Wei, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Yao, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan, Yunfei Chu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, Zhihao Fan

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Binyuan Hui

**Upvotes**: 168

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/qwenlm/qwen2)

### Abstract

This report introduces the Qwen2 series, the latest addition to our large
language models and large multimodal models. We release a comprehensive suite
of foundational and instruction-tuned language models, encompassing a parameter
range from 0.5 to 72 billion, featuring dense models and a Mixture-of-Experts
model. Qwen2 surpasses most prior open-weight models, including its predecessor
Qwen1.5, and exhibits competitive performance relative to proprietary models
across diverse benchmarks on language understanding, generation, multilingual
proficiency, coding, mathematics, and reasoning.
  The flagship model, Qwen2-72B, showcases remarkable performance: 84.2 on
MMLU, 37.9 on GPQA, 64.6 on HumanEval, 89.5 on GSM8K, and 82.4 on BBH as a base
language model. The instruction-tuned variant, Qwen2-72B-Instruct, attains 9.1
on MT-Bench, 48.1 on Arena-Hard, and 35.7 on LiveCodeBench. Moreover, Qwen2
demonstrates robust multilingual capabilities, proficient in approximately 30
languages, spanning English, Chinese, Spanish, French, German, Arabic, Russian,
Korean, Japanese, Thai, Vietnamese, and more, underscoring its versatility and
global reach.
  To foster community innovation and accessibility, we have made the Qwen2
model weights openly available on Hugging Face1 and ModelScope2, and the
supplementary materials including example code on GitHub3. These platforms also
include resources for quantization, fine-tuning, and deployment, facilitating a
wide range of applications and research endeavors.

---

## 2. [Learning to Refuse: Towards Mitigating Privacy Risks in LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10058)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10058](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10058)

**Authors**: Zhenhua Liu, Tong Zhu, Chuanyuan Tan, Wenliang Chen

**Published**: 2024-07-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Tong Zhu

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zhliu0106/learning-to-refuse)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) exhibit remarkable capabilities in understanding
and generating natural language. However, these models can inadvertently
memorize private information, posing significant privacy risks. This study
addresses the challenge of enabling LLMs to protect specific individuals'
private data without the need for complete retraining. We propose \return, a
Real-world pErsonal daTa UnleaRNing dataset, comprising 2,492 individuals from
Wikipedia with associated QA pairs, to evaluate machine unlearning (MU) methods
for protecting personal data in a realistic scenario. Additionally, we
introduce the Name-Aware Unlearning Framework (NAUF) for Privacy Protection,
which enables the model to learn which individuals' information should be
protected without affecting its ability to answer questions related to other
unrelated individuals. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that NAUF achieves
a state-of-the-art average unlearning score, surpassing the best baseline
method by 5.65 points, effectively protecting target individuals' personal data
while maintaining the model's general capabilities.

---

## 3. [GRUtopia: Dream General Robots in a City at Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10943)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10943](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10943)

**Authors**: Hanqing Wang, Jiahe Chen, Wensi Huang, Qingwei Ben, Tai Wang, Boyu Mi, Tao Huang, Siheng Zhao, Yilun Chen, Sizhe Yang, Peizhou Cao, Wenye Yu, Zichao Ye, Jialun Li, Junfeng Long, Zirui Wang, Huiling Wang, Ying Zhao, Zhongying Tu, Yu Qiao, Dahua Lin, Jiangmiao Pang

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Tai Wang

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/openrobotlab/grutopia)

### Abstract

Recent works have been exploring the scaling laws in the field of Embodied
AI. Given the prohibitive costs of collecting real-world data, we believe the
Simulation-to-Real (Sim2Real) paradigm is a crucial step for scaling the
learning of embodied models. This paper introduces project GRUtopia, the first
simulated interactive 3D society designed for various robots. It features
several advancements: (a) The scene dataset, GRScenes, includes 100k
interactive, finely annotated scenes, which can be freely combined into
city-scale environments. In contrast to previous works mainly focusing on home,
GRScenes covers 89 diverse scene categories, bridging the gap of
service-oriented environments where general robots would be initially deployed.
(b) GRResidents, a Large Language Model (LLM) driven Non-Player Character (NPC)
system that is responsible for social interaction, task generation, and task
assignment, thus simulating social scenarios for embodied AI applications. (c)
The benchmark, GRBench, supports various robots but focuses on legged robots as
primary agents and poses moderately challenging tasks involving Object
Loco-Navigation, Social Loco-Navigation, and Loco-Manipulation. We hope that
this work can alleviate the scarcity of high-quality data in this field and
provide a more comprehensive assessment of Embodied AI research. The project is
available at https://github.com/OpenRobotLab/GRUtopia.

---

## 4. [The Good, The Bad, and The Greedy: Evaluation of LLMs Should Not Ignore
  Non-Determinism](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10457)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10457](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10457)

**Authors**: Yifan Song, Guoyin Wang, Sujian Li, Bill Yuchen Lin

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Bill Yuchen Lin

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yifan-song793/goodbadgreedy)

### Abstract

Current evaluations of large language models (LLMs) often overlook
non-determinism, typically focusing on a single output per example. This limits
our understanding of LLM performance variability in real-world applications.
Our study addresses this issue by exploring key questions about the performance
differences between greedy decoding and sampling, identifying benchmarks'
consistency regarding non-determinism, and examining unique model behaviors.
Through extensive experiments, we observe that greedy decoding generally
outperforms sampling methods for most evaluated tasks. We also observe
consistent performance across different LLM sizes and alignment methods, noting
that alignment can reduce sampling variance. Moreover, our best-of-N sampling
approach demonstrates that smaller LLMs can match or surpass larger models such
as GPT-4-Turbo, highlighting the untapped potential of smaller LLMs. This
research shows the importance of considering non-determinism in LLM evaluations
and provides insights for future LLM development and evaluation.

---

## 5. [Q-Sparse: All Large Language Models can be Fully Sparsely-Activated](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10969)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10969](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10969)

**Authors**: Hongyu Wang, Shuming Ma, Ruiping Wang, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Shuming Ma

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

We introduce, Q-Sparse, a simple yet effective approach to training
sparsely-activated large language models (LLMs). Q-Sparse enables full sparsity
of activations in LLMs which can bring significant efficiency gains in
inference. This is achieved by applying top-K sparsification to the activations
and the straight-through-estimator to the training. The key results from this
work are, (1) Q-Sparse can achieve results comparable to those of baseline LLMs
while being much more efficient at inference time; (2) We present an
inference-optimal scaling law for sparsely-activated LLMs; (3) Q-Sparse is
effective in different settings, including training-from-scratch,
continue-training of off-the-shelf LLMs, and finetuning; (4) Q-Sparse works for
both full-precision and 1-bit LLMs (e.g., BitNet b1.58). Particularly, the
synergy of BitNet b1.58 and Q-Sparse (can be equipped with MoE) provides the
cornerstone and a clear path to revolutionize the efficiency, including cost
and energy consumption, of future LLMs.

---

## 6. [Foundational Autoraters: Taming Large Language Models for Better
  Automatic Evaluation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10817)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10817](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10817)

**Authors**: Tu Vu, Kalpesh Krishna, Salaheddin Alzubi, Chris Tar, Manaal Faruqui, Yun-Hsuan Sung

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Tu Vu

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

As large language models (LLMs) advance, it becomes more challenging to
reliably evaluate their output due to the high costs of human evaluation. To
make progress towards better LLM autoraters, we introduce FLAMe, a family of
Foundational Large Autorater Models. FLAMe is trained on our large and diverse
collection of 100+ quality assessment tasks comprising 5M+ human judgments,
curated and standardized using publicly released human evaluations from
previous research. FLAMe significantly improves generalization to a wide
variety of held-out tasks, outperforming LLMs trained on proprietary data like
GPT-4 and Claude-3 on many tasks. We show that FLAMe can also serve as a
powerful starting point for further downstream fine-tuning, using reward
modeling evaluation as a case study (FLAMe-RM). Notably, on RewardBench, our
FLAMe-RM-24B model (with an accuracy of 87.8%) is the top-performing generative
model trained exclusively on permissively licensed data, outperforming both
GPT-4-0125 (85.9%) and GPT-4o (84.7%). Additionally, we explore a more
computationally efficient approach using a novel tail-patch fine-tuning
strategy to optimize our FLAMe multitask mixture for reward modeling evaluation
(FLAMe-Opt-RM), offering competitive RewardBench performance while requiring
approximately 25x less training datapoints. Overall, our FLAMe variants
outperform all popular proprietary LLM-as-a-Judge models we consider across 8
out of 12 autorater evaluation benchmarks, encompassing 53 quality assessment
tasks, including RewardBench and LLM-AggreFact. Finally, our analysis reveals
that FLAMe is significantly less biased than these LLM-as-a-Judge models on the
CoBBLEr autorater bias benchmark, while effectively identifying high-quality
responses for code generation.

---

## 7. [Make-An-Agent: A Generalizable Policy Network Generator with
  Behavior-Prompted Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10973)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10973](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10973)

**Authors**: Yongyuan Liang, Tingqiang Xu, Kaizhe Hu, Guangqi Jiang, Furong Huang, Huazhe Xu

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Yongyuan Liang

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Can we generate a control policy for an agent using just one demonstration of
desired behaviors as a prompt, as effortlessly as creating an image from a
textual description? In this paper, we present Make-An-Agent, a novel policy
parameter generator that leverages the power of conditional diffusion models
for behavior-to-policy generation. Guided by behavior embeddings that encode
trajectory information, our policy generator synthesizes latent parameter
representations, which can then be decoded into policy networks. Trained on
policy network checkpoints and their corresponding trajectories, our generation
model demonstrates remarkable versatility and scalability on multiple tasks and
has a strong generalization ability on unseen tasks to output well-performed
policies with only few-shot demonstrations as inputs. We showcase its efficacy
and efficiency on various domains and tasks, including varying objectives,
behaviors, and even across different robot manipulators. Beyond simulation, we
directly deploy policies generated by Make-An-Agent onto real-world robots on
locomotion tasks.

---

## 8. [DataDream: Few-shot Guided Dataset Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10910)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10910](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10910)

**Authors**: Jae Myung Kim, Jessica Bader, Stephan Alaniz, Cordelia Schmid, Zeynep Akata

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/explainableml/datadream)

### Abstract

While text-to-image diffusion models have been shown to achieve
state-of-the-art results in image synthesis, they have yet to prove their
effectiveness in downstream applications. Previous work has proposed to
generate data for image classifier training given limited real data access.
However, these methods struggle to generate in-distribution images or depict
fine-grained features, thereby hindering the generalization of classification
models trained on synthetic datasets. We propose DataDream, a framework for
synthesizing classification datasets that more faithfully represents the real
data distribution when guided by few-shot examples of the target classes.
DataDream fine-tunes LoRA weights for the image generation model on the few
real images before generating the training data using the adapted model. We
then fine-tune LoRA weights for CLIP using the synthetic data to improve
downstream image classification over previous approaches on a large variety of
datasets. We demonstrate the efficacy of DataDream through extensive
experiments, surpassing state-of-the-art classification accuracy with few-shot
data across 7 out of 10 datasets, while being competitive on the other 3.
Additionally, we provide insights into the impact of various factors, such as
the number of real-shot and generated images as well as the fine-tuning compute
on model performance. The code is available at
https://github.com/ExplainableML/DataDream.

---

## 9. [Masked Generative Video-to-Audio Transformers with Enhanced
  Synchronicity](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10387)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10387](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10387)

**Authors**: Santiago Pascual, Chunghsin Yeh, Ioannis Tsiamas, Joan Serrà

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Video-to-audio (V2A) generation leverages visual-only video features to
render plausible sounds that match the scene. Importantly, the generated sound
onsets should match the visual actions that are aligned with them, otherwise
unnatural synchronization artifacts arise. Recent works have explored the
progression of conditioning sound generators on still images and then video
features, focusing on quality and semantic matching while ignoring
synchronization, or by sacrificing some amount of quality to focus on improving
synchronization only. In this work, we propose a V2A generative model, named
MaskVAT, that interconnects a full-band high-quality general audio codec with a
sequence-to-sequence masked generative model. This combination allows modeling
both high audio quality, semantic matching, and temporal synchronicity at the
same time. Our results show that, by combining a high-quality codec with the
proper pre-trained audio-visual features and a sequence-to-sequence parallel
structure, we are able to yield highly synchronized results on one hand, whilst
being competitive with the state of the art of non-codec generative audio
models. Sample videos and generated audios are available at
https://maskvat.github.io .

---

## 10. [Video Occupancy Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.09533)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.09533](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.09533)

**Authors**: Manan Tomar, Philippe Hansen-Estruch, Philip Bachman, Alex Lamb, John Langford, Matthew E. Taylor, Sergey Levine

**Published**: 2024-06-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/manantomar/video-occupancy-models)

### Abstract

We introduce a new family of video prediction models designed to support
downstream control tasks. We call these models Video Occupancy models (VOCs).
VOCs operate in a compact latent space, thus avoiding the need to make
predictions about individual pixels. Unlike prior latent-space world models,
VOCs directly predict the discounted distribution of future states in a single
step, thus avoiding the need for multistep roll-outs. We show that both
properties are beneficial when building predictive models of video for use in
downstream control. Code is available at
https://github.com/manantomar/video-occupancy-models{github.com/manantomar/video-occupancy-models}.

---

## 11. [Spider2-V: How Far Are Multimodal Agents From Automating Data Science
  and Engineering Workflows?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10956)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10956](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10956)

**Authors**: Ruisheng Cao, Fangyu Lei, Haoyuan Wu, Jixuan Chen, Yeqiao Fu, Hongcheng Gao, Xinzhuang Xiong, Hanchong Zhang, Yuchen Mao, Wenjing Hu, Tianbao Xie, Hongshen Xu, Danyang Zhang, Sida Wang, Ruoxi Sun, Pengcheng Yin, Caiming Xiong, Ansong Ni, Qian Liu, Victor Zhong, Lu Chen, Kai Yu, Tao Yu

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Ruisheng Cao

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xlang-ai/spider2-v)

### Abstract

Data science and engineering workflows often span multiple stages, from
warehousing to orchestration, using tools like BigQuery, dbt, and Airbyte. As
vision language models (VLMs) advance in multimodal understanding and code
generation, VLM-based agents could potentially automate these workflows by
generating SQL queries, Python code, and GUI operations. This automation can
improve the productivity of experts while democratizing access to large-scale
data analysis. In this paper, we introduce Spider2-V, the first multimodal
agent benchmark focusing on professional data science and engineering
workflows, featuring 494 real-world tasks in authentic computer environments
and incorporating 20 enterprise-level professional applications. These tasks,
derived from real-world use cases, evaluate the ability of a multimodal agent
to perform data-related tasks by writing code and managing the GUI in
enterprise data software systems. To balance realistic simulation with
evaluation simplicity, we devote significant effort to developing automatic
configurations for task setup and carefully crafting evaluation metrics for
each task. Furthermore, we supplement multimodal agents with comprehensive
documents of these enterprise data software systems. Our empirical evaluation
reveals that existing state-of-the-art LLM/VLM-based agents do not reliably
automate full data workflows (14.0% success). Even with step-by-step guidance,
these agents still underperform in tasks that require fine-grained,
knowledge-intensive GUI actions (16.2%) and involve remote cloud-hosted
workspaces (10.6%). We hope that Spider2-V paves the way for autonomous
multimodal agents to transform the automation of data science and engineering
workflow. Our code and data are available at https://spider2-v.github.io.

---

## 12. [LAB-Bench: Measuring Capabilities of Language Models for Biology
  Research](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10362)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10362](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10362)

**Authors**: Jon M. Laurent, Joseph D. Janizek, Michael Ruzo, Michaela M. Hinks, Michael J. Hammerling, Siddharth Narayanan, Manvitha Ponnapati, Andrew D. White, Samuel G. Rodriques

**Published**: 2024-07-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

There is widespread optimism that frontier Large Language Models (LLMs) and
LLM-augmented systems have the potential to rapidly accelerate scientific
discovery across disciplines. Today, many benchmarks exist to measure LLM
knowledge and reasoning on textbook-style science questions, but few if any
benchmarks are designed to evaluate language model performance on practical
tasks required for scientific research, such as literature search, protocol
planning, and data analysis. As a step toward building such benchmarks, we
introduce the Language Agent Biology Benchmark (LAB-Bench), a broad dataset of
over 2,400 multiple choice questions for evaluating AI systems on a range of
practical biology research capabilities, including recall and reasoning over
literature, interpretation of figures, access and navigation of databases, and
comprehension and manipulation of DNA and protein sequences. Importantly, in
contrast to previous scientific benchmarks, we expect that an AI system that
can achieve consistently high scores on the more difficult LAB-Bench tasks
would serve as a useful assistant for researchers in areas such as literature
search and molecular cloning. As an initial assessment of the emergent
scientific task capabilities of frontier language models, we measure
performance of several against our benchmark and report results compared to
human expert biology researchers. We will continue to update and expand
LAB-Bench over time, and expect it to serve as a useful tool in the development
of automated research systems going forward. A public subset of LAB-Bench is
available for use at the following URL:
https://huggingface.co/datasets/futurehouse/lab-bench

---

## 13. [SHERL: Synthesizing High Accuracy and Efficient Memory for
  Resource-Limited Transfer Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.07523)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.07523](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.07523)

**Authors**: Haiwen Diao, Bo Wan, Xu Jia, Yunzhi Zhuge, Ying Zhang, Huchuan Lu, Long Chen

**Published**: 2024-07-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Haiwen Diao

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/paranioar/sherl)

### Abstract

Parameter-efficient transfer learning (PETL) has emerged as a flourishing
research field for adapting large pre-trained models to downstream tasks,
greatly reducing trainable parameters while grappling with memory challenges
during fine-tuning. To address it, memory-efficient series (METL) avoid
backpropagating gradients through the large backbone. However, they compromise
by exclusively relying on frozen intermediate outputs and limiting the
exhaustive exploration of prior knowledge from pre-trained models. Moreover,
the dependency and redundancy between cross-layer features are frequently
overlooked, thereby submerging more discriminative representations and causing
an inherent performance gap (vs. conventional PETL methods). Hence, we propose
an innovative METL strategy called SHERL for resource-limited scenarios to
decouple the entire adaptation into two successive and complementary processes.
In the early route, intermediate outputs are consolidated via an
anti-redundancy operation, enhancing their compatibility for subsequent
interactions; thereby in the late route, utilizing minimal late pre-trained
layers could alleviate the peak demand on memory overhead and regulate these
fairly flexible features into more adaptive and powerful representations for
new domains. Extensive ablations on vision-and-language and language-only tasks
show that SHERL combines the strengths of both parameter and memory-efficient
techniques, performing on-par or better across diverse architectures with lower
memory during fine-tuning. Our code is publicly available at:
https://github.com/Paranioar/SHERL.

---

## 14. [MMM: Multilingual Mutual Reinforcement Effect Mix Datasets & Test with
  Open-domain Information Extraction Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10953)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10953](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10953)

**Authors**: Chengguang Gan, Qingyu Yin, Xinyang He, Hanjun Wei, Yunhao Liang, Younghun Lim, Shijian Wang, Hexiang Huang, Qinghao Zhang, Shiwen Ni, Tatsunori Mori

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

The Mutual Reinforcement Effect (MRE) represents a promising avenue in
information extraction and multitasking research. Nevertheless, its
applicability has been constrained due to the exclusive availability of MRE mix
datasets in Japanese, thereby limiting comprehensive exploration by the global
research community. To address this limitation, we introduce a Multilingual MRE
mix dataset (MMM) that encompasses 21 sub-datasets in English, Japanese, and
Chinese. In this paper, we also propose a method for dataset translation
assisted by Large Language Models (LLMs), which significantly reduces the
manual annotation time required for dataset construction by leveraging LLMs to
translate the original Japanese datasets. Additionally, we have enriched the
dataset by incorporating open-domain Named Entity Recognition (NER) and
sentence classification tasks. Utilizing this expanded dataset, we developed a
unified input-output framework to train an Open-domain Information Extraction
Large Language Model (OIELLM). The OIELLM model demonstrates the capability to
effectively process novel MMM datasets, exhibiting significant improvements in
performance.

---

## 15. [LLM Circuit Analyses Are Consistent Across Training and Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10827)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10827](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10827)

**Authors**: Curt Tigges, Michael Hanna, Qinan Yu, Stella Biderman

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by Gabriele Sarti

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Most currently deployed large language models (LLMs) undergo continuous
training or additional finetuning. By contrast, most research into LLMs'
internal mechanisms focuses on models at one snapshot in time (the end of
pre-training), raising the question of whether their results generalize to
real-world settings. Existing studies of mechanisms over time focus on
encoder-only or toy models, which differ significantly from most deployed
models. In this study, we track how model mechanisms, operationalized as
circuits, emerge and evolve across 300 billion tokens of training in
decoder-only LLMs, in models ranging from 70 million to 2.8 billion parameters.
We find that task abilities and the functional components that support them
emerge consistently at similar token counts across scale. Moreover, although
such components may be implemented by different attention heads over time, the
overarching algorithm that they implement remains. Surprisingly, both these
algorithms and the types of components involved therein can replicate across
model scale. These results suggest that circuit analyses conducted on small
models at the end of pre-training can provide insights that still apply after
additional pre-training and over model scale.

---

## 16. [Noise Calibration: Plug-and-play Content-Preserving Video Enhancement
  using Pre-trained Video Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10285)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10285](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10285)

**Authors**: Qinyu Yang, Haoxin Chen, Yong Zhang, Menghan Xia, Xiaodong Cun, Zhixun Su, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2024-07-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yangqy1110/nc-sdedit)

### Abstract

In order to improve the quality of synthesized videos, currently, one
predominant method involves retraining an expert diffusion model and then
implementing a noising-denoising process for refinement. Despite the
significant training costs, maintaining consistency of content between the
original and enhanced videos remains a major challenge. To tackle this
challenge, we propose a novel formulation that considers both visual quality
and consistency of content. Consistency of content is ensured by a proposed
loss function that maintains the structure of the input, while visual quality
is improved by utilizing the denoising process of pretrained diffusion models.
To address the formulated optimization problem, we have developed a
plug-and-play noise optimization strategy, referred to as Noise Calibration. By
refining the initial random noise through a few iterations, the content of
original video can be largely preserved, and the enhancement effect
demonstrates a notable improvement. Extensive experiments have demonstrated the
effectiveness of the proposed method.

---
