# Daily Papers - 2024-07-01

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-07-01)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [Scaling Synthetic Data Creation with 1,000,000,000 Personas](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.20094)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.20094](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.20094)

**Authors**: Xin Chan, Xiaoyang Wang, Dian Yu, Haitao Mi, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2024-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by Xiaoyang Wang

**Upvotes**: 104

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tencent-ailab/persona-hub)

### Abstract

We propose a novel persona-driven data synthesis methodology that leverages
various perspectives within a large language model (LLM) to create diverse
synthetic data. To fully exploit this methodology at scale, we introduce
Persona Hub -- a collection of 1 billion diverse personas automatically curated
from web data. These 1 billion personas (~13% of the world's total population),
acting as distributed carriers of world knowledge, can tap into almost every
perspective encapsulated within the LLM, thereby facilitating the creation of
diverse synthetic data at scale for various scenarios. By showcasing Persona
Hub's use cases in synthesizing high-quality mathematical and logical reasoning
problems, instructions (i.e., user prompts), knowledge-rich texts, game NPCs
and tools (functions) at scale, we demonstrate persona-driven data synthesis is
versatile, scalable, flexible, and easy to use, potentially driving a paradigm
shift in synthetic data creation and applications in practice, which may have a
profound impact on LLM research and development.

---

## 2. [HuatuoGPT-Vision, Towards Injecting Medical Visual Knowledge into
  Multimodal LLMs at Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.19280)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.19280](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.19280)

**Authors**: Junying Chen, Ruyi Ouyang, Anningzhe Gao, Shunian Chen, Guiming Hardy Chen, Xidong Wang, Ruifei Zhang, Zhenyang Cai, Ke Ji, Guangjun Yu, Xiang Wan, Benyou Wang

**Published**: 2024-06-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by Junying Chen

**Upvotes**: 63

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/freedomintelligence/huatuogpt-vision)

### Abstract

The rapid development of multimodal large language models (MLLMs), such as
GPT-4V, has led to significant advancements. However, these models still face
challenges in medical multimodal capabilities due to limitations in the
quantity and quality of medical vision-text data, stemming from data privacy
concerns and high annotation costs. While pioneering approaches utilize
PubMed's large-scale, de-identified medical image-text pairs to address these
limitations, they still fall short due to inherent data noise. To tackle this,
we refined medical image-text pairs from PubMed and employed MLLMs (GPT-4V) in
an 'unblinded' capacity to denoise and reformat the data, resulting in the
creation of the PubMedVision dataset with 1.3 million medical VQA samples. Our
validation demonstrates that: (1) PubMedVision can significantly enhance the
medical multimodal capabilities of current MLLMs, showing significant
improvement in benchmarks including the MMMU Health & Medicine track; (2)
manual checks by medical experts and empirical results validate the superior
data quality of our dataset compared to other data construction methods. Using
PubMedVision, we train a 34B medical MLLM HuatuoGPT-Vision, which shows
superior performance in medical multimodal scenarios among open-source MLLMs.

---

## 3. [Direct Preference Knowledge Distillation for Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.19774)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.19774](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.19774)

**Authors**: Yixing Li, Yuxian Gu, Li Dong, Yu Cheng, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2024-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by Li Dong

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [Project Page](https://aka.ms/dpkd)

### Abstract

In the field of large language models (LLMs), Knowledge Distillation (KD) is
a critical technique for transferring capabilities from teacher models to
student models. However, existing KD methods face limitations and challenges in
distillation of LLMs, including efficiency and insufficient measurement
capabilities of traditional KL divergence. It is shown that LLMs can serve as
an implicit reward function, which we define as a supplement to KL divergence.
In this work, we propose Direct Preference Knowledge Distillation (DPKD) for
LLMs. DPKD utilizes distribution divergence to represent the preference loss
and implicit reward function. We re-formulate KD of LLMs into two stages: first
optimizing and objective consisting of implicit reward and reverse KL
divergence and then improving the preference probability of teacher outputs
over student outputs. We conducted experiments and analysis on various datasets
with LLM parameters ranging from 120M to 13B and demonstrate the broad
applicability and effectiveness of our DPKD approach. Meanwhile, we prove the
value and effectiveness of the introduced implicit reward and output preference
in KD through experiments and theoretical analysis. The DPKD method outperforms
the baseline method in both output response precision and exact match
percentage. Code and data are available at https://aka.ms/dpkd.

---

## 4. [LLaRA: Supercharging Robot Learning Data for Vision-Language Policy](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.20095)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.20095](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.20095)

**Authors**: Xiang Li, Cristina Mata, Jongwoo Park, Kumara Kahatapitiya, Yoo Sung Jang, Jinghuan Shang, Kanchana Ranasinghe, Ryan Burgert, Mu Cai, Yong Jae Lee, Michael S. Ryoo

**Published**: 2024-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by Xiang Li

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/LostXine/LLaRA) | [Project Page](https://github.com/LostXine/LLaRA)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) equipped with extensive world knowledge and
strong reasoning skills can tackle diverse tasks across domains, often by
posing them as conversation-style instruction-response pairs. In this paper, we
propose LLaRA: Large Language and Robotics Assistant, a framework which
formulates robot action policy as conversations, and provides improved
responses when trained with auxiliary data that complements policy learning.
LLMs with visual inputs, i.e., Vision Language Models (VLMs), have the capacity
to process state information as visual-textual prompts and generate optimal
policy decisions in text. To train such action policy VLMs, we first introduce
an automated pipeline to generate diverse high-quality robotics instruction
data from existing behavior cloning data. A VLM finetuned with the resulting
collection of datasets based on a conversation-style formulation tailored for
robotics tasks, can generate meaningful robot action policy decisions. Our
experiments across multiple simulated and real-world environments demonstrate
the state-of-the-art performance of the proposed LLaRA framework. The code,
datasets, and pretrained models are available at
https://github.com/LostXine/LLaRA.

---

## 5. [GaussianDreamerPro: Text to Manipulable 3D Gaussians with Highly
  Enhanced Quality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18462)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18462](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18462)

**Authors**: Taoran Yi, Jiemin Fang, Zanwei Zhou, Junjie Wang, Lingxi Xie, Xiaopeng Zhang, Wenyu Liu, Xinggang Wang, Qi Tian

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by taoranyi

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Recently, 3D Gaussian splatting (3D-GS) has achieved great success in
reconstructing and rendering real-world scenes. To transfer the high rendering
quality to generation tasks, a series of research works attempt to generate
3D-Gaussian assets from text. However, the generated assets have not achieved
the same quality as those in reconstruction tasks. We observe that Gaussians
tend to grow without control as the generation process may cause indeterminacy.
Aiming at highly enhancing the generation quality, we propose a novel framework
named GaussianDreamerPro. The main idea is to bind Gaussians to reasonable
geometry, which evolves over the whole generation process. Along different
stages of our framework, both the geometry and appearance can be enriched
progressively. The final output asset is constructed with 3D Gaussians bound to
mesh, which shows significantly enhanced details and quality compared with
previous methods. Notably, the generated asset can also be seamlessly
integrated into downstream manipulation pipelines, e.g. animation, composition,
and simulation etc., greatly promoting its potential in wide applications.
Demos are available at https://taoranyi.com/gaussiandreamerpro/.

---

## 6. [EVF-SAM: Early Vision-Language Fusion for Text-Prompted Segment Anything
  Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.20076)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.20076](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.20076)

**Authors**: Yuxuan Zhang, Tianheng Cheng, Rui Hu, ei Liu, Heng Liu, Longjin Ran, Xiaoxin Chen, Wenyu Liu, Xinggang Wang

**Published**: 2024-06-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by Tianheng Cheng

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hustvl/evf-sam)

### Abstract

Segment Anything Model (SAM) has attracted widespread attention for its
superior interactive segmentation capabilities with visual prompts while
lacking further exploration of text prompts. In this paper, we empirically
investigate what text prompt encoders (e.g., CLIP or LLM) are good for adapting
SAM for referring expression segmentation and introduce the Early
Vision-language Fusion-based SAM (EVF-SAM). EVF-SAM is a simple yet effective
referring segmentation method which exploits multimodal prompts (i.e., image
and text) and comprises a pre-trained vision-language model to generate
referring prompts and a SAM model for segmentation. Surprisingly, we observe
that: (1) multimodal prompts and (2) vision-language models with early fusion
(e.g., BEIT-3) are beneficial for prompting SAM for accurate referring
segmentation. Our experiments show that the proposed EVF-SAM based on BEIT-3
can obtain state-of-the-art performance on RefCOCO/+/g for referring expression
segmentation and demonstrate the superiority of prompting SAM with early
vision-language fusion. In addition, the proposed EVF-SAM with 1.32B parameters
achieves remarkably higher performance while reducing nearly 82% of parameters
compared to previous SAM methods based on large multimodal models.

---

## 7. [AutoRAG-HP: Automatic Online Hyper-Parameter Tuning for
  Retrieval-Augmented Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.19251)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.19251](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.19251)

**Authors**: Jia Fu, Xiaoting Qin, Fangkai Yang, Lu Wang, Jue Zhang, Qingwei Lin, Dongmei Zhang, Saravan Rajmohan, Qi Zhang

**Published**: 2024-06-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by Jue Zhang

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Recent advancements in Large Language Models have transformed ML/AI
development, necessitating a reevaluation of AutoML principles for the
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems. To address the challenges of
hyper-parameter optimization and online adaptation in RAG, we propose the
AutoRAG-HP framework, which formulates the hyper-parameter tuning as an online
multi-armed bandit (MAB) problem and introduces a novel two-level Hierarchical
MAB (Hier-MAB) method for efficient exploration of large search spaces. We
conduct extensive experiments on tuning hyper-parameters, such as top-k
retrieved documents, prompt compression ratio, and embedding methods, using the
ALCE-ASQA and Natural Questions datasets. Our evaluation from jointly
optimization all three hyper-parameters demonstrate that MAB-based online
learning methods can achieve Recall@5 approx 0.8 for scenarios with
prominent gradients in search space, using only sim20% of the LLM API calls
required by the Grid Search approach. Additionally, the proposed Hier-MAB
approach outperforms other baselines in more challenging optimization
scenarios. The code will be made available at https://aka.ms/autorag.

---

## 8. [Efficient World Models with Context-Aware Tokenization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.19320)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.19320](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.19320)

**Authors**: Vincent Micheli, Eloi Alonso, François Fleuret

**Published**: 2024-06-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by Vincent Micheli

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vmicheli/delta-iris)

### Abstract

Scaling up deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) methods presents a significant
challenge. Following developments in generative modelling, model-based RL
positions itself as a strong contender. Recent advances in sequence modelling
have led to effective transformer-based world models, albeit at the price of
heavy computations due to the long sequences of tokens required to accurately
simulate environments. In this work, we propose Delta-IRIS, a new agent with
a world model architecture composed of a discrete autoencoder that encodes
stochastic deltas between time steps and an autoregressive transformer that
predicts future deltas by summarizing the current state of the world with
continuous tokens. In the Crafter benchmark, Delta-IRIS sets a new state of
the art at multiple frame budgets, while being an order of magnitude faster to
train than previous attention-based approaches. We release our code and models
at https://github.com/vmicheli/delta-iris.

---

## 9. [Arboretum: A Large Multimodal Dataset Enabling AI for Biodiversity](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.17720)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.17720](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.17720)

**Authors**: Chih-Hsuan Yang, Benjamin Feuer, Zaki Jubery, Zi K. Deng, Andre Nakkab, Md Zahid Hasan, Shivani Chiranjeevi, Kelly Marshall, Nirmal Baishnab, Asheesh K Singh, Arti Singh, Soumik Sarkar, Nirav Merchant, Chinmay Hegde, Baskar Ganapathysubramanian

**Published**: 2024-06-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/baskargroup/Arboretum)

### Abstract

We introduce Arboretum, the largest publicly accessible dataset designed to
advance AI for biodiversity applications. This dataset, curated from the
iNaturalist community science platform and vetted by domain experts to ensure
accuracy, includes 134.6 million images, surpassing existing datasets in scale
by an order of magnitude. The dataset encompasses image-language paired data
for a diverse set of species from birds (Aves), spiders/ticks/mites
(Arachnida), insects (Insecta), plants (Plantae), fungus/mushrooms (Fungi),
snails (Mollusca), and snakes/lizards (Reptilia), making it a valuable resource
for multimodal vision-language AI models for biodiversity assessment and
agriculture research. Each image is annotated with scientific names, taxonomic
details, and common names, enhancing the robustness of AI model training.
  We showcase the value of Arboretum by releasing a suite of CLIP models
trained using a subset of 40 million captioned images. We introduce several new
benchmarks for rigorous assessment, report accuracy for zero-shot learning, and
evaluations across life stages, rare species, confounding species, and various
levels of the taxonomic hierarchy.
  We anticipate that Arboretum will spur the development of AI models that can
enable a variety of digital tools ranging from pest control strategies, crop
monitoring, and worldwide biodiversity assessment and environmental
conservation. These advancements are critical for ensuring food security,
preserving ecosystems, and mitigating the impacts of climate change. Arboretum
is publicly available, easily accessible, and ready for immediate use.
  Please see the https://baskargroup.github.io/Arboretum/{project
website} for links to our data, models, and code.

---

## 10. [Iterative Nash Policy Optimization: Aligning LLMs with General
  Preferences via No-Regret Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.00617)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.00617](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00617)

**Authors**: Yuheng Zhang, Dian Yu, Baolin Peng, Linfeng Song, Ye Tian, Mingyue Huo, Nan Jiang, Haitao Mi, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2024-06-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by Yuheng Zhang

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) has achieved great success
in aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences. Prevalent RLHF
approaches are reward-based, following the Bradley-Terry (BT) model assumption,
which may not fully capture the complexity of human preferences. In this paper,
we explore RLHF under a general preference framework and approach it from a
game-theoretic perspective. Specifically, we formulate the problem as a
two-player game and propose a novel algorithm, iterative Nash policy
optimization (INPO). The key idea is to let the policy play against itself via
no-regret learning, thereby approximating the Nash policy. Unlike previous
methods, INPO bypasses the need for estimating the expected win rate for
individual responses, which typically incurs high computational or annotation
costs. Instead, we introduce a new loss objective that is directly minimized
over a preference dataset. We provide theoretical analysis for our approach and
demonstrate its effectiveness through experiments on various representative
benchmarks. With an LLaMA-3-8B-based SFT model, INPO achieves a 41.5%
length-controlled win rate on AlpacaEval 2.0 and a 38.3% win rate on
Arena-Hard, showing substantial improvement over the state-of-the-art iterative
algorithm [Dong et al., 2024] under the BT model assumption. Additionally, our
ablation study highlights the benefits of incorporating KL regularization for
response length control.

---

## 11. [RaTEScore: A Metric for Radiology Report Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.16845)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.16845](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.16845)

**Authors**: Weike Zhao, Chaoyi Wu, Xiaoman Zhang, Ya Zhang, Yanfeng Wang, Weidi Xie

**Published**: 2024-06-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-01 by Weike Zhao

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MAGIC-AI4Med/RaTEScore)

### Abstract

This paper introduces a novel, entity-aware metric, termed as Radiological
Report (Text) Evaluation (RaTEScore), to assess the quality of medical reports
generated by AI models. RaTEScore emphasizes crucial medical entities such as
diagnostic outcomes and anatomical details, and is robust against complex
medical synonyms and sensitive to negation expressions. Technically, we
developed a comprehensive medical NER dataset, RaTE-NER, and trained an NER
model specifically for this purpose. This model enables the decomposition of
complex radiological reports into constituent medical entities. The metric
itself is derived by comparing the similarity of entity embeddings, obtained
from a language model, based on their types and relevance to clinical
significance. Our evaluations demonstrate that RaTEScore aligns more closely
with human preference than existing metrics, validated both on established
public benchmarks and our newly proposed RaTE-Eval benchmark.

---
