# Daily Papers - 2024-07-17

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-07-17)

Total papers: 19

---

## 1. [Qwen2-Audio Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10759)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10759](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10759)

**Authors**: Yunfei Chu, Jin Xu, Qian Yang, Haojie Wei, Xipin Wei, Zhifang Guo, Yichong Leng, Yuanjun Lv, Jinzheng He, Junyang Lin, Chang Zhou, Jingren Zhou

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by YuanjunLv

**Upvotes**: 64

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/qwenlm/qwen2-audio)

### Abstract

We introduce the latest progress of Qwen-Audio, a large-scale audio-language
model called Qwen2-Audio, which is capable of accepting various audio signal
inputs and performing audio analysis or direct textual responses with regard to
speech instructions. In contrast to complex hierarchical tags, we have
simplified the pre-training process by utilizing natural language prompts for
different data and tasks, and have further expanded the data volume. We have
boosted the instruction-following capability of Qwen2-Audio and implemented two
distinct audio interaction modes for voice chat and audio analysis. In the
voice chat mode, users can freely engage in voice interactions with Qwen2-Audio
without text input. In the audio analysis mode, users could provide audio and
text instructions for analysis during the interaction. Note that we do not use
any system prompts to switch between voice chat and audio analysis modes.
Qwen2-Audio is capable of intelligently comprehending the content within audio
and following voice commands to respond appropriately. For instance, in an
audio segment that simultaneously contains sounds, multi-speaker conversations,
and a voice command, Qwen2-Audio can directly understand the command and
provide an interpretation and response to the audio. Additionally, DPO has
optimized the model's performance in terms of factuality and adherence to
desired behavior. According to the evaluation results from AIR-Bench,
Qwen2-Audio outperformed previous SOTAs, such as Gemini-1.5-pro, in tests
focused on audio-centric instruction-following capabilities. Qwen2-Audio is
open-sourced with the aim of fostering the advancement of the multi-modal
language community.

---

## 2. [NeedleBench: Can LLMs Do Retrieval and Reasoning in 1 Million Context
  Window?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11963)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11963](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11963)

**Authors**: Mo Li, Songyang Zhang, Yunxin Liu, Kai Chen

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 44

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/open-compass/opencompass) | [Project Page](https://opencompass.org.cn/)

### Abstract

In evaluating the long-context capabilities of large language models (LLMs),
identifying content relevant to a user's query from original long documents is
a crucial prerequisite for any LLM to answer questions based on long text. We
present NeedleBench, a framework consisting of a series of progressively more
challenging tasks for assessing bilingual long-context capabilities, spanning
multiple length intervals (4k, 8k, 32k, 128k, 200k, 1000k, and beyond) and
different depth ranges, allowing the strategic insertion of critical data
points in different text depth zones to rigorously test the retrieval and
reasoning capabilities of models in diverse contexts. We use the NeedleBench
framework to assess how well the leading open-source models can identify key
information relevant to the question and apply that information to reasoning in
bilingual long texts. Furthermore, we propose the Ancestral Trace Challenge
(ATC) to mimic the complexity of logical reasoning challenges that are likely
to be present in real-world long-context tasks, providing a simple method for
evaluating LLMs in dealing with complex long-context situations. Our results
suggest that current LLMs have significant room for improvement in practical
long-context applications, as they struggle with the complexity of logical
reasoning challenges that are likely to be present in real-world long-context
tasks. All codes and resources are available at OpenCompass:
https://github.com/open-compass/opencompass.

---

## 3. [Scaling Diffusion Transformers to 16 Billion Parameters](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11633)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11633](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11633)

**Authors**: Zhengcong Fei, Mingyuan Fan, Changqian Yu, Debang Li, Junshi Huang

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/feizc/dit-moe)

### Abstract

In this paper, we present DiT-MoE, a sparse version of the diffusion
Transformer, that is scalable and competitive with dense networks while
exhibiting highly optimized inference. The DiT-MoE includes two simple designs:
shared expert routing and expert-level balance loss, thereby capturing common
knowledge and reducing redundancy among the different routed experts. When
applied to conditional image generation, a deep analysis of experts
specialization gains some interesting observations: (i) Expert selection shows
preference with spatial position and denoising time step, while insensitive
with different class-conditional information; (ii) As the MoE layers go deeper,
the selection of experts gradually shifts from specific spacial position to
dispersion and balance. (iii) Expert specialization tends to be more
concentrated at the early time step and then gradually uniform after half. We
attribute it to the diffusion process that first models the low-frequency
spatial information and then high-frequency complex information. Based on the
above guidance, a series of DiT-MoE experimentally achieves performance on par
with dense networks yet requires much less computational load during inference.
More encouragingly, we demonstrate the potential of DiT-MoE with synthesized
image data, scaling diffusion model at a 16.5B parameter that attains a new
SoTA FID-50K score of 1.80 in 512times512 resolution settings. The project
page: https://github.com/feizc/DiT-MoE.

---

## 4. [Ref-AVS: Refer and Segment Objects in Audio-Visual Scenes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10957)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10957](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10957)

**Authors**: Yaoting Wang, Peiwen Sun, Dongzhan Zhou, Guangyao Li, Honggang Zhang, Di Hu

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by Dongzhan Zhou

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

Traditional reference segmentation tasks have predominantly focused on silent
visual scenes, neglecting the integral role of multimodal perception and
interaction in human experiences. In this work, we introduce a novel task
called Reference Audio-Visual Segmentation (Ref-AVS), which seeks to segment
objects within the visual domain based on expressions containing multimodal
cues. Such expressions are articulated in natural language forms but are
enriched with multimodal cues, including audio and visual descriptions. To
facilitate this research, we construct the first Ref-AVS benchmark, which
provides pixel-level annotations for objects described in corresponding
multimodal-cue expressions. To tackle the Ref-AVS task, we propose a new method
that adequately utilizes multimodal cues to offer precise segmentation
guidance. Finally, we conduct quantitative and qualitative experiments on three
test subsets to compare our approach with existing methods from related tasks.
The results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, highlighting its
capability to precisely segment objects using multimodal-cue expressions.
Dataset is available at
https://gewu-lab.github.io/Ref-AVS{https://gewu-lab.github.io/Ref-AVS}.

---

## 5. [Sibyl: Simple yet Effective Agent Framework for Complex Real-world
  Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10718)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.10718](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10718)

**Authors**: Yulong Wang, Tianhao Shen, Lifeng Liu, Jian Xie

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by Wang Yulong

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ag2s1/sibyl-system)

### Abstract

Existing agents based on large language models (LLMs) demonstrate robust
problem-solving capabilities by integrating LLMs' inherent knowledge, strong
in-context learning and zero-shot capabilities, and the use of tools combined
with intricately designed LLM invocation workflows by humans. However, these
agents still exhibit shortcomings in long-term reasoning and under-use the
potential of existing tools, leading to noticeable deficiencies in complex
real-world reasoning scenarios. To address these limitations, we introduce
Sibyl, a simple yet powerful LLM-based agent framework designed to tackle
complex reasoning tasks by efficiently leveraging a minimal set of tools.
Drawing inspiration from Global Workspace Theory, Sibyl incorporates a global
workspace to enhance the management and sharing of knowledge and conversation
history throughout the system. Furthermore, guided by Society of Mind Theory,
Sibyl implements a multi-agent debate-based jury to self-refine the final
answers, ensuring a comprehensive and balanced approach. This approach aims to
reduce system complexity while expanding the scope of problems solvable-from
matters typically resolved by humans in minutes to those requiring hours or
even days, thus facilitating a shift from System-1 to System-2 thinking. Sibyl
has been designed with a focus on scalability and ease of debugging by
incorporating the concept of reentrancy from functional programming from its
inception, with the aim of seamless and low effort integration in other LLM
applications to improve capabilities. Our experimental results on the GAIA
benchmark test set reveal that the Sibyl agent instantiated with GPT-4 achieves
state-of-the-art performance with an average score of 34.55%, compared to other
agents based on GPT-4. We hope that Sibyl can inspire more reliable and
reusable LLM-based agent solutions to address complex real-world reasoning
tasks.

---

## 6. [VLMEvalKit: An Open-Source Toolkit for Evaluating Large Multi-Modality
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11691)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11691](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11691)

**Authors**: Haodong Duan, Junming Yang, Yuxuan Qiao, Xinyu Fang, Lin Chen, Yuan Liu, Xiaoyi Dong, Yuhang Zang, Pan Zhang, Jiaqi Wang, Dahua Lin, Kai Chen

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by Lin Chen

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

We present VLMEvalKit: an open-source toolkit for evaluating large
multi-modality models based on PyTorch. The toolkit aims to provide a
user-friendly and comprehensive framework for researchers and developers to
evaluate existing multi-modality models and publish reproducible evaluation
results. In VLMEvalKit, we implement over 70 different large multi-modality
models, including both proprietary APIs and open-source models, as well as more
than 20 different multi-modal benchmarks. By implementing a single interface,
new models can be easily added to the toolkit, while the toolkit automatically
handles the remaining workloads, including data preparation, distributed
inference, prediction post-processing, and metric calculation. Although the
toolkit is currently mainly used for evaluating large vision-language models,
its design is compatible with future updates that incorporate additional
modalities, such as audio and video. Based on the evaluation results obtained
with the toolkit, we host OpenVLM Leaderboard, a comprehensive leaderboard to
track the progress of multi-modality learning research. The toolkit is released
at https://github.com/open-compass/VLMEvalKit and is actively maintained.

---

## 7. [DreamCatalyst: Fast and High-Quality 3D Editing via Controlling
  Editability and Identity Preservation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11394)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11394](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11394)

**Authors**: Jiwook Kim, Seonho Lee, Jaeyo Shin, Jiho Choi, Hyunjung Shim

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kaist-cvml-lab/DreamCatalyst)

### Abstract

Score distillation sampling (SDS) has emerged as an effective framework in
text-driven 3D editing tasks due to its inherent 3D consistency. However,
existing SDS-based 3D editing methods suffer from extensive training time and
lead to low-quality results, primarily because these methods deviate from the
sampling dynamics of diffusion models. In this paper, we propose DreamCatalyst,
a novel framework that interprets SDS-based editing as a diffusion reverse
process. Our objective function considers the sampling dynamics, thereby making
the optimization process of DreamCatalyst an approximation of the diffusion
reverse process in editing tasks. DreamCatalyst aims to reduce training time
and improve editing quality. DreamCatalyst presents two modes: (1) a faster
mode, which edits the NeRF scene in only about 25 minutes, and (2) a
high-quality mode, which produces superior results in less than 70 minutes.
Specifically, our high-quality mode outperforms current state-of-the-art NeRF
editing methods both in terms of speed and quality. See more extensive results
on our project page: https://dream-catalyst.github.io.

---

## 8. [Animate3D: Animating Any 3D Model with Multi-view Video Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11398)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11398](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11398)

**Authors**: Yanqin Jiang, Chaohui Yu, Chenjie Cao, Fan Wang, Weiming Hu, Jin Gao

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Recent advances in 4D generation mainly focus on generating 4D content by
distilling pre-trained text or single-view image-conditioned models. It is
inconvenient for them to take advantage of various off-the-shelf 3D assets with
multi-view attributes, and their results suffer from spatiotemporal
inconsistency owing to the inherent ambiguity in the supervision signals. In
this work, we present Animate3D, a novel framework for animating any static 3D
model. The core idea is two-fold: 1) We propose a novel multi-view video
diffusion model (MV-VDM) conditioned on multi-view renderings of the static 3D
object, which is trained on our presented large-scale multi-view video dataset
(MV-Video). 2) Based on MV-VDM, we introduce a framework combining
reconstruction and 4D Score Distillation Sampling (4D-SDS) to leverage the
multi-view video diffusion priors for animating 3D objects. Specifically, for
MV-VDM, we design a new spatiotemporal attention module to enhance spatial and
temporal consistency by integrating 3D and video diffusion models.
Additionally, we leverage the static 3D model's multi-view renderings as
conditions to preserve its identity. For animating 3D models, an effective
two-stage pipeline is proposed: we first reconstruct motions directly from
generated multi-view videos, followed by the introduced 4D-SDS to refine both
appearance and motion. Qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate
that Animate3D significantly outperforms previous approaches. Data, code, and
models will be open-released.

---

## 9. [YouTube-SL-25: A Large-Scale, Open-Domain Multilingual Sign Language
  Parallel Corpus](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11144)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11144](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11144)

**Authors**: Garrett Tanzer, Biao Zhang

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Even for better-studied sign languages like American Sign Language (ASL),
data is the bottleneck for machine learning research. The situation is worse
yet for the many other sign languages used by Deaf/Hard of Hearing communities
around the world. In this paper, we present YouTube-SL-25, a large-scale,
open-domain multilingual corpus of sign language videos with seemingly
well-aligned captions drawn from YouTube. With >3000 hours of videos across >25
sign languages, YouTube-SL-25 is a) >3x the size of YouTube-ASL, b) the largest
parallel sign language dataset to date, and c) the first or largest parallel
dataset for many of its component languages. We provide baselines for
sign-to-text tasks using a unified multilingual multitask model based on T5 and
report scores on benchmarks across 4 sign languages. The results demonstrate
that multilingual transfer benefits both higher- and lower-resource sign
languages within YouTube-SL-25.

---

## 10. [EfficientQAT: Efficient Quantization-Aware Training for Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11062)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11062](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11062)

**Authors**: Mengzhao Chen, Wenqi Shao, Peng Xu, Jiahao Wang, Peng Gao, Kaipeng Zhang, Yu Qiao, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2024-07-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by Mengzhao Chen

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OpenGVLab/EfficientQAT)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are integral to modern natural language
processing and artificial intelligence. However, they face challenges in
managing their significant memory requirements. Although quantization-aware
training (QAT) offers a solution by reducing memory consumption through low-bit
representations with minimal accuracy loss, it demands substantial training
resources to optimize model weights and quantization parameters. To address
this, we propose Efficient Quantization-Aware Training (EfficientQAT), a novel
quantization technique for compressing LLMs. EfficientQAT involves two
consecutive phases: Block-wise training of all parameters (Block-AP) and
end-to-end training of quantization parameters (E2E-QP). Block-AP sequentially
conducts quantization-aware training for all parameters in each transformer
block with block-wise reconstruction, maintaining efficiency by avoiding
training the entire LLM. Initialized with quantized model, E2E-QP then trains
only quantization parameters (step sizes) end-to-end, enhancing efficiency with
a fixed quantized backbone and reduced trainable parameter count. Extensive
experiments demonstrate that EfficientQAT outperforms previous quantization
methods across a range of models, including base LLMs, instruction-tuned LLMs,
and multimodal LLMs, with scales from 7B to 70B parameters at various
quantization bits. For instance, EfficientQAT obtains a 2-bit Llama-2-70B model
on a single A100-80GB GPU in 41 hours, with less than 3\% accuracy degradation
compared to the full precision (69.48 vs. 72.41). Notably, this INT2 quantized
70B model obtains a 1.67 accuracy gain over the Llama-2-13B model (69.48 vs.
67.81) while requiring less memory (19.2GB vs. 24.2GB). Code is available at
https://github.com/OpenGVLab/EfficientQAT.

---

## 11. [Efficient Training with Denoised Neural Weights](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11966)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11966](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11966)

**Authors**: Yifan Gong, Zheng Zhan, Yanyu Li, Yerlan Idelbayev, Andrey Zharkov, Kfir Aberman, Sergey Tulyakov, Yanzhi Wang, Jian Ren

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Good weight initialization serves as an effective measure to reduce the
training cost of a deep neural network (DNN) model. The choice of how to
initialize parameters is challenging and may require manual tuning, which can
be time-consuming and prone to human error. To overcome such limitations, this
work takes a novel step towards building a weight generator to synthesize the
neural weights for initialization. We use the image-to-image translation task
with generative adversarial networks (GANs) as an example due to the ease of
collecting model weights spanning a wide range. Specifically, we first collect
a dataset with various image editing concepts and their corresponding trained
weights, which are later used for the training of the weight generator. To
address the different characteristics among layers and the substantial number
of weights to be predicted, we divide the weights into equal-sized blocks and
assign each block an index. Subsequently, a diffusion model is trained with
such a dataset using both text conditions of the concept and the block indexes.
By initializing the image translation model with the denoised weights predicted
by our diffusion model, the training requires only 43.3 seconds. Compared to
training from scratch (i.e., Pix2pix), we achieve a 15x training time
acceleration for a new concept while obtaining even better image generation
quality.

---

## 12. [FIRE: A Dataset for Feedback Integration and Refinement Evaluation of
  Multimodal Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11522)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11522](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11522)

**Authors**: Pengxiang Li, Zhi Gao, Bofei Zhang, Tao Yuan, Yuwei Wu, Mehrtash Harandi, Yunde Jia, Song-Chun Zhu, Qing Li

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Vision language models (VLMs) have achieved impressive progress in diverse
applications, becoming a prevalent research direction. In this paper, we build
FIRE, a feedback-refinement dataset, consisting of 1.1M multi-turn
conversations that are derived from 27 source datasets, empowering VLMs to
spontaneously refine their responses based on user feedback across diverse
tasks. To scale up the data collection, FIRE is collected in two components:
FIRE-100K and FIRE-1M, where FIRE-100K is generated by GPT-4V, and FIRE-1M is
freely generated via models trained on FIRE-100K. Then, we build FIRE-Bench, a
benchmark to comprehensively evaluate the feedback-refining capability of VLMs,
which contains 11K feedback-refinement conversations as the test data, two
evaluation settings, and a model to provide feedback for VLMs. We develop the
FIRE-LLaVA model by fine-tuning LLaVA on FIRE-100K and FIRE-1M, which shows
remarkable feedback-refining capability on FIRE-Bench and outperforms untrained
VLMs by 50%, making more efficient user-agent interactions and underscoring the
significance of the FIRE dataset.

---

## 13. [From GaLore to WeLore: How Low-Rank Weights Non-uniformly Emerge from
  Low-Rank Gradients](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11239)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11239](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11239)

**Authors**: Ajay Jaiswal, Lu Yin, Zhenyu Zhang, Shiwei Liu, Jiawei Zhao, Yuandong Tian, Zhangyang Wang

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vita-group/welore)

### Abstract

Modern Large Language Models (LLMs) are composed of matrices with billions of
elements, making their storage and processing quite demanding in terms of
computational resources and memory usage. Being significantly large, such
matrices can often be expressed in low-rank format with potential to relax
resource requirements. Unlike prior works which focus on developing novel
matrix decomposition algorithms, in this work we first study the emergence of
low-rank structures across matrices within different layers of LLMs and
establish a consequential relationship between the gradient dynamics and
emerging low-rank expressiveness of matrices. Our findings reveal that
different layers exhibit varying levels of converged low-rank structure,
necessitating a non-uniform rank reduction across them to minimize performance
drop due to compression. In view of that, we present Weight Low-Rank Projection
(WeLore) that unifies weight compression and memory-efficient fine-tuning as
ONE, in a data-agnostic and one-shot way. WeLore capitalizes the heavy-tail
distribution of singular values to identify a suitable rank reduction ratio for
matrices within LLMs. Going beyond only as a compression technique, WeLore
categorizes weight matrices into Low-rank Components (LRCs) and Non-Low-rank
Components (N-LRCs) based on their ability to express themselves as low-rank.
Our gradient perspective and extensive experiments illustrate that LRCs tend to
have better finetuning capabilities and can closely mimic (sometimes
outperform) the training loss trajectory and performance of full-finetuning
with notable memory and compute footprint reduction. For example, finetuning a
50\% compressed LLaMa-2 7B model using only a fraction of parameters in LRCs
(WeLore) can outperform its full finetuning with ~3x better throughput and
~0.6x GPU requirement. Our codes are available at
https://github.com/VITA-Group/welore

---

## 14. [OmniBind: Large-scale Omni Multimodal Representation via Binding Spaces](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11895)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11895](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11895)

**Authors**: Zehan Wang, Ziang Zhang, Hang Zhang, Luping Liu, Rongjie Huang, Xize Cheng, Hengshuang Zhao, Zhou Zhao

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by ZehanWang

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Recently, human-computer interaction with various modalities has shown
promising applications, like GPT-4o and Gemini. Given the foundational role of
multimodal joint representation in understanding and generation pipelines,
high-quality omni joint representations would be a step toward co-processing
more diverse multimodal information. In this work, we present OmniBind,
large-scale multimodal joint representation models ranging in scale from 7
billion to 30 billion parameters, which support 3D, audio, image, and language
inputs. Due to the scarcity of data pairs across all modalities, instead of
training large models from scratch, we propose remapping and binding the spaces
of various pre-trained specialist models together. This approach enables
"scaling up" by indirectly increasing the model parameters and the amount of
seen data. To effectively integrate various spaces, we dynamically assign
weights to different spaces by learning routers with two objectives:
cross-modal overall alignment and language representation decoupling. Notably,
since binding and routing spaces both only require lightweight networks,
OmniBind is extremely training-efficient. Learning the largest 30B model
requires merely unpaired unimodal data and approximately 3 days on a single
8-4090 node. Extensive experiments demonstrate the versatility and superiority
of OmniBind as an omni representation model, highlighting its great potential
for diverse applications, such as any-query and composable multimodal
understanding.

---

## 15. [Grasping Diverse Objects with Simulated Humanoids](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11385)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11385](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11385)

**Authors**: Zhengyi Luo, Jinkun Cao, Sammy Christen, Alexander Winkler, Kris Kitani, Weipeng Xu

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

We present a method for controlling a simulated humanoid to grasp an object
and move it to follow an object trajectory. Due to the challenges in
controlling a humanoid with dexterous hands, prior methods often use a
disembodied hand and only consider vertical lifts or short trajectories. This
limited scope hampers their applicability for object manipulation required for
animation and simulation. To close this gap, we learn a controller that can
pick up a large number (>1200) of objects and carry them to follow randomly
generated trajectories. Our key insight is to leverage a humanoid motion
representation that provides human-like motor skills and significantly speeds
up training. Using only simplistic reward, state, and object representations,
our method shows favorable scalability on diverse object and trajectories. For
training, we do not need dataset of paired full-body motion and object
trajectories. At test time, we only require the object mesh and desired
trajectories for grasping and transporting. To demonstrate the capabilities of
our method, we show state-of-the-art success rates in following object
trajectories and generalizing to unseen objects. Code and models will be
released.

---

## 16. [Vibravox: A Dataset of French Speech Captured with Body-conduction Audio
  Sensors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11828)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11828](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11828)

**Authors**: Julien Hauret, Malo Olivier, Thomas Joubaud, Christophe Langrenne, Sarah Poirée, Véronique Zimpfer, Éric Bavu

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by Julien Hauret

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jhauret/vibravox)

### Abstract

Vibravox is a dataset compliant with the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR) containing audio recordings using five different body-conduction audio
sensors : two in-ear microphones, two bone conduction vibration pickups and a
laryngophone. The data set also includes audio data from an airborne microphone
used as a reference. The Vibravox corpus contains 38 hours of speech samples
and physiological sounds recorded by 188 participants under different acoustic
conditions imposed by an high order ambisonics 3D spatializer. Annotations
about the recording conditions and linguistic transcriptions are also included
in the corpus. We conducted a series of experiments on various speech-related
tasks, including speech recognition, speech enhancement and speaker
verification. These experiments were carried out using state-of-the-art models
to evaluate and compare their performances on signals captured by the different
audio sensors offered by the Vibravox dataset, with the aim of gaining a better
grasp of their individual characteristics.

---

## 17. [Data-Juicer Sandbox: A Comprehensive Suite for Multimodal Data-Model
  Co-development](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11784)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11784](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11784)

**Authors**: Daoyuan Chen, Haibin Wang, Yilun Huang, Ce Ge, Yaliang Li, Bolin Ding, Jingren Zhou

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by Daoyuan Chen

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/modelscope/data-juicer)

### Abstract

The emergence of large-scale multi-modal generative models has drastically
advanced artificial intelligence, introducing unprecedented levels of
performance and functionality. However, optimizing these models remains
challenging due to historically isolated paths of model-centric and
data-centric developments, leading to suboptimal outcomes and inefficient
resource utilization. In response, we present a novel sandbox suite tailored
for integrated data-model co-development. This sandbox provides a comprehensive
experimental platform, enabling rapid iteration and insight-driven refinement
of both data and models. Our proposed "Probe-Analyze-Refine" workflow,
validated through applications on state-of-the-art LLaVA-like and DiT based
models, yields significant performance boosts, such as topping the VBench
leaderboard. We also uncover fruitful insights gleaned from exhaustive
benchmarks, shedding light on the critical interplay between data quality,
diversity, and model behavior. With the hope of fostering deeper understanding
and future progress in multi-modal data and generative modeling, our codes,
datasets, and models are maintained and accessible at
https://github.com/modelscope/data-juicer/blob/main/docs/Sandbox.md.

---

## 18. [Click-Gaussian: Interactive Segmentation to Any 3D Gaussians](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11793)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11793](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11793)

**Authors**: Seokhun Choi, Hyeonseop Song, Jaechul Kim, Taehyeong Kim, Hoseok Do

**Published**: 2024-07-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Interactive segmentation of 3D Gaussians opens a great opportunity for
real-time manipulation of 3D scenes thanks to the real-time rendering
capability of 3D Gaussian Splatting. However, the current methods suffer from
time-consuming post-processing to deal with noisy segmentation output. Also,
they struggle to provide detailed segmentation, which is important for
fine-grained manipulation of 3D scenes. In this study, we propose
Click-Gaussian, which learns distinguishable feature fields of two-level
granularity, facilitating segmentation without time-consuming post-processing.
We delve into challenges stemming from inconsistently learned feature fields
resulting from 2D segmentation obtained independently from a 3D scene. 3D
segmentation accuracy deteriorates when 2D segmentation results across the
views, primary cues for 3D segmentation, are in conflict. To overcome these
issues, we propose Global Feature-guided Learning (GFL). GFL constructs the
clusters of global feature candidates from noisy 2D segments across the views,
which smooths out noises when training the features of 3D Gaussians. Our method
runs in 10 ms per click, 15 to 130 times as fast as the previous methods, while
also significantly improving segmentation accuracy. Our project page is
available at https://seokhunchoi.github.io/Click-Gaussian

---

## 19. [Uncertainty is Fragile: Manipulating Uncertainty in Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.11282)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.11282](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11282)

**Authors**: Qingcheng Zeng, Mingyu Jin, Qinkai Yu, Zhenting Wang, Wenyue Hua, Zihao Zhou, Guangyan Sun, Yanda Meng, Shiqing Ma, Qifan Wang, Felix Juefei-Xu, Kaize Ding, Fan Yang, Ruixiang Tang, Yongfeng Zhang

**Published**: 2024-07-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-07-17 by Mingyu.Jin

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/qcznlp/uncertainty_attack)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) are employed across various high-stakes domains,
where the reliability of their outputs is crucial. One commonly used method to
assess the reliability of LLMs' responses is uncertainty estimation, which
gauges the likelihood of their answers being correct. While many studies focus
on improving the accuracy of uncertainty estimations for LLMs, our research
investigates the fragility of uncertainty estimation and explores potential
attacks. We demonstrate that an attacker can embed a backdoor in LLMs, which,
when activated by a specific trigger in the input, manipulates the model's
uncertainty without affecting the final output. Specifically, the proposed
backdoor attack method can alter an LLM's output probability distribution,
causing the probability distribution to converge towards an attacker-predefined
distribution while ensuring that the top-1 prediction remains unchanged. Our
experimental results demonstrate that this attack effectively undermines the
model's self-evaluation reliability in multiple-choice questions. For instance,
we achieved a 100 attack success rate (ASR) across three different triggering
strategies in four models. Further, we investigate whether this manipulation
generalizes across different prompts and domains. This work highlights a
significant threat to the reliability of LLMs and underscores the need for
future defenses against such attacks. The code is available at
https://github.com/qcznlp/uncertainty_attack.

---
