# Daily Papers - 2024-09-05

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-05)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [Loopy: Taming Audio-Driven Portrait Avatar with Long-Term Motion
  Dependency](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02634)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02634](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02634)

**Authors**: Jianwen Jiang, Chao Liang, Jiaqi Yang, Gaojie Lin, Tianyun Zhong, Yanbo Zheng

**Published**: 2024-09-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 97

### Abstract

With the introduction of diffusion-based video generation techniques,
audio-conditioned human video generation has recently achieved significant
breakthroughs in both the naturalness of motion and the synthesis of portrait
details. Due to the limited control of audio signals in driving human motion,
existing methods often add auxiliary spatial signals to stabilize movements,
which may compromise the naturalness and freedom of motion. In this paper, we
propose an end-to-end audio-only conditioned video diffusion model named Loopy.
Specifically, we designed an inter- and intra-clip temporal module and an
audio-to-latents module, enabling the model to leverage long-term motion
information from the data to learn natural motion patterns and improving
audio-portrait movement correlation. This method removes the need for manually
specified spatial motion templates used in existing methods to constrain motion
during inference. Extensive experiments show that Loopy outperforms recent
audio-driven portrait diffusion models, delivering more lifelike and
high-quality results across various scenarios.

---

## 2. [LongLLaVA: Scaling Multi-modal LLMs to 1000 Images Efficiently via
  Hybrid Architecture](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02889)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02889](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02889)

**Authors**: Xidong Wang, Dingjie Song, Shunian Chen, Chen Zhang, Benyou Wang

**Published**: 2024-09-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-05 by Xidong Wang

**Upvotes**: 54

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/freedomintelligence/longllava)

### Abstract

Expanding the long-context capabilities of Multi-modal Large Language
Models~(MLLMs) is crucial for video understanding, high-resolution image
understanding, and multi-modal agents. This involves a series of systematic
optimizations, including model architecture, data construction and training
strategy, particularly addressing challenges such as degraded
performance with more images and high computational costs. In this
paper, we adapt the model architecture to a hybrid of Mamba and Transformer
blocks, approach data construction with both temporal and spatial dependencies
among multiple images and employ a progressive training strategy. The released
model LongLLaVA~(Long-Context Large
Language and Vision Assistant) is the first
hybrid MLLM, which achieved a better balance between efficiency and
effectiveness. LongLLaVA not only achieves competitive results across various
benchmarks, but also maintains high throughput and low memory consumption.
Especially, it could process nearly a thousand images on a single A100 80GB
GPU, showing promising application prospects for a wide range of tasks.

---

## 3. [LongCite: Enabling LLMs to Generate Fine-grained Citations in
  Long-context QA](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02897)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02897](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02897)

**Authors**: jiajie Zhang, Yushi Bai, Xin Lv, Danqing Liu, Minhao Zou, Shulin Cao, Lei Hou, Yuxiao Dong, Ling Feng, Juanzi Li

**Published**: 2024-09-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-05 by Jiajie Zhang

**Upvotes**: 48

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/THUDM/LongCite)

### Abstract

Though current long-context large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated
impressive capacities in answering user questions based on extensive text, the
lack of citations in their responses makes user verification difficult, leading
to concerns about their trustworthiness due to their potential hallucinations.
In this work, we aim to enable long-context LLMs to generate responses with
fine-grained sentence-level citations, improving their faithfulness and
verifiability. We first introduce LongBench-Cite, an automated benchmark for
assessing current LLMs' performance in Long-Context Question Answering with
Citations (LQAC), revealing considerable room for improvement. To this end, we
propose CoF (Coarse to Fine), a novel pipeline that utilizes off-the-shelf LLMs
to automatically generate long-context QA instances with precise sentence-level
citations, and leverage this pipeline to construct LongCite-45k, a large-scale
SFT dataset for LQAC. Finally, we train LongCite-8B and LongCite-9B using the
LongCite-45k dataset, successfully enabling their generation of accurate
responses and fine-grained sentence-level citations in a single output. The
evaluation results on LongBench-Cite show that our trained models achieve
state-of-the-art citation quality, surpassing advanced proprietary models
including GPT-4o.

---

## 4. [MMMU-Pro: A More Robust Multi-discipline Multimodal Understanding
  Benchmark](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02813)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02813](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02813)

**Authors**: Xiang Yue, Tianyu Zheng, Yuansheng Ni, Yubo Wang, Kai Zhang, Shengbang Tong, Yuxuan Sun, Ming Yin, Botao Yu, Ge Zhang, Huan Sun, Yu Su, Wenhu Chen, Graham Neubig

**Published**: 2024-09-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

**Links**: [Project Page](https://mmmu-benchmark.github.io/#leaderboard)

### Abstract

This paper introduces MMMU-Pro, a robust version of the Massive
Multi-discipline Multimodal Understanding and Reasoning (MMMU) benchmark.
MMMU-Pro rigorously assesses multimodal models' true understanding and
reasoning capabilities through a three-step process based on MMMU: (1)
filtering out questions answerable by text-only models, (2) augmenting
candidate options, and (3) introducing a vision-only input setting where
questions are embedded within images. This setting challenges AI to truly "see"
and "read" simultaneously, testing a fundamental human cognitive skill of
seamlessly integrating visual and textual information. Results show that model
performance is substantially lower on MMMU-Pro than on MMMU, ranging from 16.8%
to 26.9% across models. We explore the impact of OCR prompts and Chain of
Thought (CoT) reasoning, finding that OCR prompts have minimal effect while CoT
generally improves performance. MMMU-Pro provides a more rigorous evaluation
tool, closely mimicking real-world scenarios and offering valuable directions
for future research in multimodal AI.

---

## 5. [Affordance-based Robot Manipulation with Flow Matching](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.01083)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.01083](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01083)

**Authors**: Fan Zhang, Michael Gienger

**Published**: 2024-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-05 by Fan Zhang

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/HRI-EU/flow_matching) | [Project Page](https://hri-eu.github.io/flow-matching-policy/)

### Abstract

We present a framework for assistive robot manipulation, which focuses on two
fundamental challenges: first, efficiently adapting large-scale models to
downstream scene affordance understanding tasks, especially in daily living
scenarios where gathering multi-task data involving humans requires strenuous
effort; second, effectively learning robot trajectories by grounding the visual
affordance model. We tackle the first challenge by employing a
parameter-efficient prompt tuning method that prepends learnable text prompts
to the frozen vision model to predict manipulation affordances in multi-task
scenarios. Then we propose to learn robot trajectories guided by affordances in
a supervised Flow Matching method. Flow matching represents a robot visuomotor
policy as a conditional process of flowing random waypoints to desired robot
trajectories. Finally, we introduce a real-world dataset with 10 tasks across
Activities of Daily Living to test our framework. Our extensive evaluation
highlights that the proposed prompt tuning method for learning manipulation
affordance with language prompter achieves competitive performance and even
outperforms other finetuning protocols across data scales, while satisfying
parameter efficiency. Learning multi-task robot trajectories with a single flow
matching policy also leads to consistently better performance than alternative
behavior cloning methods, especially given multimodal robot action
distributions. Our framework seamlessly unifies affordance model learning and
trajectory generation with flow matching for robot manipulation.

---

## 6. [Arctic-SnowCoder: Demystifying High-Quality Data in Code Pretraining](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02326)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02326](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02326)

**Authors**: Yuxiang Wei, Hojae Han, Rajhans Samdani

**Published**: 2024-09-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Recent studies have been increasingly demonstrating that high-quality data is
crucial for effective pretraining of language models. However, the precise
definition of "high-quality" remains underexplored. Focusing on the code
domain, we introduce Arctic-SnowCoder-1.3B, a data-efficient base code model
pretrained on 555B tokens through three phases of progressively refined data:
(1) general pretraining with 500B standard-quality code tokens, preprocessed
through basic filtering, deduplication, and decontamination, (2) continued
pretraining with 50B high-quality tokens, selected from phase one by a
BERT-style quality annotator trained to distinguish good code from random data,
using positive examples drawn from high-quality code files, along with
instruction data from Magicoder and StarCoder2-Instruct, and (3) enhanced
pretraining with 5B synthetic data created by Llama-3.1-70B using phase two
data as seeds, adapting the Magicoder approach for pretraining. Despite being
trained on a limited dataset, Arctic-SnowCoder achieves state-of-the-art
performance on BigCodeBench, a coding benchmark focusing on practical and
challenging programming tasks, compared to similarly sized models trained on no
more than 1T tokens, outperforming Phi-1.5-1.3B by 36%. Across all evaluated
benchmarks, Arctic-SnowCoder-1.3B beats StarCoderBase-3B pretrained on 1T
tokens. Additionally, it matches the performance of leading small base code
models trained on trillions of tokens. For example, Arctic-SnowCoder-1.3B
surpasses StarCoder2-3B, pretrained on over 3.3T tokens, on HumanEval+, a
benchmark that evaluates function-level code generation, and remains
competitive on BigCodeBench. Our evaluation presents a comprehensive analysis
justifying various design choices for Arctic-SnowCoder. Most importantly, we
find that the key to high-quality data is its alignment with the distribution
of downstream applications.

---

## 7. [Political DEBATE: Efficient Zero-shot and Few-shot Classifiers for
  Political Text](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02078)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02078](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02078)

**Authors**: Michael Burnham, Kayla Kahn, Ryan Yank Wang, Rachel X. Peng

**Published**: 2024-09-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-05 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Social scientists quickly adopted large language models due to their ability
to annotate documents without supervised training, an ability known as
zero-shot learning. However, due to their compute demands, cost, and often
proprietary nature, these models are often at odds with replication and open
science standards. This paper introduces the Political DEBATE (DeBERTa
Algorithm for Textual Entailment) language models for zero-shot and few-shot
classification of political documents. These models are not only as good, or
better than, state-of-the art large language models at zero and few-shot
classification, but are orders of magnitude more efficient and completely open
source. By training the models on a simple random sample of 10-25 documents,
they can outperform supervised classifiers trained on hundreds or thousands of
documents and state-of-the-art generative models with complex, engineered
prompts. Additionally, we release the PolNLI dataset used to train these models
-- a corpus of over 200,000 political documents with highly accurate labels
across over 800 classification tasks.

---

## 8. [FastVoiceGrad: One-step Diffusion-Based Voice Conversion with
  Adversarial Conditional Diffusion Distillation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02245)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02245](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02245)

**Authors**: Takuhiro Kaneko, Hirokazu Kameoka, Kou Tanaka, Yuto Kondo

**Published**: 2024-09-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Diffusion-based voice conversion (VC) techniques such as VoiceGrad have
attracted interest because of their high VC performance in terms of speech
quality and speaker similarity. However, a notable limitation is the slow
inference caused by the multi-step reverse diffusion. Therefore, we propose
FastVoiceGrad, a novel one-step diffusion-based VC that reduces the number of
iterations from dozens to one while inheriting the high VC performance of the
multi-step diffusion-based VC. We obtain the model using adversarial
conditional diffusion distillation (ACDD), leveraging the ability of generative
adversarial networks and diffusion models while reconsidering the initial
states in sampling. Evaluations of one-shot any-to-any VC demonstrate that
FastVoiceGrad achieves VC performance superior to or comparable to that of
previous multi-step diffusion-based VC while enhancing the inference speed.
Audio samples are available at
https://www.kecl.ntt.co.jp/people/kaneko.takuhiro/projects/fastvoicegrad/.

---
