# Daily Papers - 2024-09-26

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-26)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [Molmo and PixMo: Open Weights and Open Data for State-of-the-Art
  Multimodal Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.17146)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.17146](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17146)

**Authors**: Matt Deitke, Christopher Clark, Sangho Lee, Rohun Tripathi, Yue Yang, Jae Sung Park, Mohammadreza Salehi, Niklas Muennighoff, Kyle Lo, Luca Soldaini, Jiasen Lu, Taira Anderson, Erin Bransom, Kiana Ehsani, Huong Ngo, YenSung Chen, Ajay Patel, Mark Yatskar, Chris Callison-Burch, Andrew Head, Rose Hendrix, Favyen Bastani, Eli VanderBilt, Nathan Lambert, Yvonne Chou, Arnavi Chheda, Jenna Sparks, Sam Skjonsberg, Michael Schmitz, Aaron Sarnat, Byron Bischoff, Pete Walsh, Chris Newell, Piper Wolters, Tanmay Gupta, Kuo-Hao Zeng, Jon Borchardt, Dirk Groeneveld, Jen Dumas, Crystal Nam, Sophie Lebrecht, Caitlin Wittlif, Carissa Schoenick, Oscar Michel, Ranjay Krishna, Luca Weihs, Noah A. Smith, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Ross Girshick, Ali Farhadi, Aniruddha Kembhavi

**Published**: 2024-09-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 121

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/allenai/molmo)

### Abstract

Today's most advanced multimodal models remain proprietary. The strongest
open-weight models rely heavily on synthetic data from proprietary VLMs to
achieve good performance, effectively distilling these closed models into open
ones. As a result, the community is still missing foundational knowledge about
how to build performant VLMs from scratch. We present Molmo, a new family of
VLMs that are state-of-the-art in their class of openness. Our key innovation
is a novel, highly detailed image caption dataset collected entirely from human
annotators using speech-based descriptions. To enable a wide array of user
interactions, we also introduce a diverse dataset mixture for fine-tuning that
includes in-the-wild Q&A and innovative 2D pointing data. The success of our
approach relies on careful choices for the model architecture details, a
well-tuned training pipeline, and, most critically, the quality of our newly
collected datasets, all of which will be released. The best-in-class 72B model
within the Molmo family not only outperforms others in the class of open weight
and data models but also compares favorably against proprietary systems like
GPT-4o, Claude 3.5, and Gemini 1.5 on both academic benchmarks and human
evaluation.
  We will be releasing all of our model weights, captioning and fine-tuning
data, and source code in the near future. Select model weights, inference code,
and demo are available at https://molmo.allenai.org.

---

## 2. [Programming Every Example: Lifting Pre-training Data Quality like
  Experts at Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.17115)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.17115](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17115)

**Authors**: Fan Zhou, Zengzhi Wang, Qian Liu, Junlong Li, Pengfei Liu

**Published**: 2024-09-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by Fan Zhou

**Upvotes**: 64

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gair-nlp/prox)

### Abstract

Large language model pre-training has traditionally relied on human experts
to craft heuristics for improving the corpora quality, resulting in numerous
rules developed to date. However, these rules lack the flexibility to address
the unique characteristics of individual example effectively. Meanwhile,
applying tailored rules to every example is impractical for human experts. In
this paper, we demonstrate that even small language models, with as few as 0.3B
parameters, can exhibit substantial data refining capabilities comparable to
those of human experts. We introduce Programming Every Example (ProX), a novel
framework that treats data refinement as a programming task, enabling models to
refine corpora by generating and executing fine-grained operations, such as
string normalization, for each individual example at scale. Experimental
results show that models pre-trained on ProX-curated data outperform either
original data or data filtered by other selection methods by more than 2%
across various downstream benchmarks. Its effectiveness spans various model
sizes and pre-training corpora, including C4, RedPajama-V2, and FineWeb.
Furthermore, ProX exhibits significant potential in domain-specific continual
pre-training: without domain specific design, models trained on OpenWebMath
refined by ProX outperform human-crafted rule-based methods, improving average
accuracy by 7.6% over Mistral-7B, with 14.6% for Llama-2-7B and 20.3% for
CodeLlama-7B, all within 10B tokens to be comparable to models like Llemma-7B
trained on 200B tokens. Further analysis highlights that ProX significantly
saves training FLOPs, offering a promising path for efficient LLM
pre-training.We are open-sourcing ProX with >100B corpus, models, and sharing
all training and implementation details for reproducible research and future
innovation. Code: https://github.com/GAIR-NLP/ProX

---

## 3. [Boosting Healthcare LLMs Through Retrieved Context](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15127)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15127](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15127)

**Authors**: Jordi Bayarri-Planas, Ashwin Kumar Gururajan, Dario Garcia-Gasulla

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by Dario

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in
natural language processing, and yet, their factual inaccuracies and
hallucinations limits their application, particularly in critical domains like
healthcare. Context retrieval methods, by introducing relevant information as
input, have emerged as a crucial approach for enhancing LLM factuality and
reliability. This study explores the boundaries of context retrieval methods
within the healthcare domain, optimizing their components and benchmarking
their performance against open and closed alternatives. Our findings reveal how
open LLMs, when augmented with an optimized retrieval system, can achieve
performance comparable to the biggest private solutions on established
healthcare benchmarks (multiple-choice question answering). Recognizing the
lack of realism of including the possible answers within the question (a setup
only found in medical exams), and after assessing a strong LLM performance
degradation in the absence of those options, we extend the context retrieval
system in that direction. In particular, we propose OpenMedPrompt a pipeline
that improves the generation of more reliable open-ended answers, moving this
technology closer to practical application.

---

## 4. [DreamWaltz-G: Expressive 3D Gaussian Avatars from Skeleton-Guided 2D
  Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.17145)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.17145](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17145)

**Authors**: Yukun Huang, Jianan Wang, Ailing Zeng, Zheng-Jun Zha, Lei Zhang, Xihui Liu

**Published**: 2024-09-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yukun-huang/DreamWaltz-G)

### Abstract

Leveraging pretrained 2D diffusion models and score distillation sampling
(SDS), recent methods have shown promising results for text-to-3D avatar
generation. However, generating high-quality 3D avatars capable of expressive
animation remains challenging. In this work, we present DreamWaltz-G, a novel
learning framework for animatable 3D avatar generation from text. The core of
this framework lies in Skeleton-guided Score Distillation and Hybrid 3D
Gaussian Avatar representation. Specifically, the proposed skeleton-guided
score distillation integrates skeleton controls from 3D human templates into 2D
diffusion models, enhancing the consistency of SDS supervision in terms of view
and human pose. This facilitates the generation of high-quality avatars,
mitigating issues such as multiple faces, extra limbs, and blurring. The
proposed hybrid 3D Gaussian avatar representation builds on the efficient 3D
Gaussians, combining neural implicit fields and parameterized 3D meshes to
enable real-time rendering, stable SDS optimization, and expressive animation.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that DreamWaltz-G is highly effective in
generating and animating 3D avatars, outperforming existing methods in both
visual quality and animation expressiveness. Our framework further supports
diverse applications, including human video reenactment and multi-subject scene
composition.

---

## 5. [Degradation-Guided One-Step Image Super-Resolution with Diffusion Priors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.17058)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.17058](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17058)

**Authors**: Aiping Zhang, Zongsheng Yue, Renjing Pei, Wenqi Ren, Xiaochun Cao

**Published**: 2024-09-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by Zongsheng Yue

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/arctichare105/s3diff)

### Abstract

Diffusion-based image super-resolution (SR) methods have achieved remarkable
success by leveraging large pre-trained text-to-image diffusion models as
priors. However, these methods still face two challenges: the requirement for
dozens of sampling steps to achieve satisfactory results, which limits
efficiency in real scenarios, and the neglect of degradation models, which are
critical auxiliary information in solving the SR problem. In this work, we
introduced a novel one-step SR model, which significantly addresses the
efficiency issue of diffusion-based SR methods. Unlike existing fine-tuning
strategies, we designed a degradation-guided Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) module
specifically for SR, which corrects the model parameters based on the
pre-estimated degradation information from low-resolution images. This module
not only facilitates a powerful data-dependent or degradation-dependent SR
model but also preserves the generative prior of the pre-trained diffusion
model as much as possible. Furthermore, we tailor a novel training pipeline by
introducing an online negative sample generation strategy. Combined with the
classifier-free guidance strategy during inference, it largely improves the
perceptual quality of the super-resolution results. Extensive experiments have
demonstrated the superior efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed model
compared to recent state-of-the-art methods.

---

## 6. [AIM 2024 Sparse Neural Rendering Challenge: Dataset and Benchmark](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15041)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15041](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15041)

**Authors**: Michal Nazarczuk, Thomas Tanay, Sibi Catley-Chandar, Richard Shaw, Radu Timofte, Eduardo Pérez-Pellitero

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by Michal Nazarczuk

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Recent developments in differentiable and neural rendering have made
impressive breakthroughs in a variety of 2D and 3D tasks, e.g. novel view
synthesis, 3D reconstruction. Typically, differentiable rendering relies on a
dense viewpoint coverage of the scene, such that the geometry can be
disambiguated from appearance observations alone. Several challenges arise when
only a few input views are available, often referred to as sparse or few-shot
neural rendering. As this is an underconstrained problem, most existing
approaches introduce the use of regularisation, together with a diversity of
learnt and hand-crafted priors. A recurring problem in sparse rendering
literature is the lack of an homogeneous, up-to-date, dataset and evaluation
protocol. While high-resolution datasets are standard in dense reconstruction
literature, sparse rendering methods often evaluate with low-resolution images.
Additionally, data splits are inconsistent across different manuscripts, and
testing ground-truth images are often publicly available, which may lead to
over-fitting. In this work, we propose the Sparse Rendering (SpaRe) dataset and
benchmark. We introduce a new dataset that follows the setup of the DTU MVS
dataset. The dataset is composed of 97 new scenes based on synthetic,
high-quality assets. Each scene has up to 64 camera views and 7 lighting
configurations, rendered at 1600x1200 resolution. We release a training split
of 82 scenes to foster generalizable approaches, and provide an online
evaluation platform for the validation and test sets, whose ground-truth images
remain hidden. We propose two different sparse configurations (3 and 9 input
images respectively). This provides a powerful and convenient tool for
reproducible evaluation, and enable researchers easy access to a public
leaderboard with the state-of-the-art performance scores. Available at:
https://sparebenchmark.github.io/

---

## 7. [Synchronize Dual Hands for Physics-Based Dexterous Guitar Playing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16629)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16629](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16629)

**Authors**: Pei Xu, Ruocheng Wang

**Published**: 2024-09-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xupei0610/guitar)

### Abstract

We present a novel approach to synthesize dexterous motions for physically
simulated hands in tasks that require coordination between the control of two
hands with high temporal precision. Instead of directly learning a joint policy
to control two hands, our approach performs bimanual control through
cooperative learning where each hand is treated as an individual agent. The
individual policies for each hand are first trained separately, and then
synchronized through latent space manipulation in a centralized environment to
serve as a joint policy for two-hand control. By doing so, we avoid directly
performing policy learning in the joint state-action space of two hands with
higher dimensions, greatly improving the overall training efficiency. We
demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach in the challenging
guitar-playing task. The virtual guitarist trained by our approach can
synthesize motions from unstructured reference data of general guitar-playing
practice motions, and accurately play diverse rhythms with complex chord
pressing and string picking patterns based on the input guitar tabs that do not
exist in the references. Along with this paper, we provide the motion capture
data that we collected as the reference for policy training. Code is available
at: https://pei-xu.github.io/guitar.

---

## 8. [HyperAgent: Generalist Software Engineering Agents to Solve Coding Tasks
  at Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16299)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16299](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16299)

**Authors**: Huy Nhat Phan, Phong X. Nguyen, Nghi D. Q. Bui

**Published**: 2024-09-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/fsoft-ai4code/hyperagent)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized software engineering (SE),
demonstrating remarkable capabilities in various coding tasks. While recent
efforts have produced autonomous software agents based on LLMs for end-to-end
development tasks, these systems are typically designed for specific SE tasks.
We introduce HyperAgent, a novel generalist multi-agent system designed to
address a wide spectrum of SE tasks across different programming languages by
mimicking human developers' workflows. Comprising four specialized agents -
Planner, Navigator, Code Editor, and Executor. HyperAgent manages the full
lifecycle of SE tasks, from initial conception to final verification. Through
extensive evaluations, HyperAgent achieves state-of-the-art performance across
diverse SE tasks: it attains a 25.01% success rate on SWE-Bench-Lite and 31.40%
on SWE-Bench-Verified for GitHub issue resolution, surpassing existing methods.
Furthermore, HyperAgent demonstrates SOTA performance in repository-level code
generation (RepoExec), and in fault localization and program repair
(Defects4J), often outperforming specialized systems. This work represents a
significant advancement towards versatile, autonomous agents capable of
handling complex, multi-step SE tasks across various domains and languages,
potentially transforming AI-assisted software development practices.

---

## 9. [NoTeeline: Supporting Real-Time Notetaking from Keypoints with Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16493)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16493](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16493)

**Authors**: Faria Huq, Abdus Samee, David Chuan-en Lin, Xiaodi Alice Tang, Jeffrey P. Bigham

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by David Chuan-En Lin

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/oaishi/noteeline)

### Abstract

Video has become a popular media form for information sharing and
consumption. However, taking notes while watching a video requires significant
time and effort. To address this, we propose a novel interactive system,
NoTeeline, for taking real-time, personalized notes. NoTeeline lets users
quickly jot down keypoints (micronotes), which are automatically expanded into
full-fledged notes that capture the content of the user's micronotes and are
consistent with the user's writing style. In a within-subjects study (N=12), we
found that NoTeeline helps users create high-quality notes that capture the
essence of their micronotes with a higher factual correctness (93.2%) while
accurately reflecting their writing style. While using NoTeeline, participants
experienced significantly reduced mental effort, captured satisfactory notes
while writing 47% less text, and completed notetaking with 43.9% less time
compared to a manual notetaking baseline.

---

## 10. [Game4Loc: A UAV Geo-Localization Benchmark from Game Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16925)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16925](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16925)

**Authors**: Yuxiang Ji, Boyong He, Zhuoyue Tan, Liaoni Wu

**Published**: 2024-09-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by Yuxiang Ji

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Yux1angJi/GTA-UAV) | [Project Page](https://Yux1angJi.github.io/game4loc)

### Abstract

The vision-based geo-localization technology for UAV, serving as a secondary
source of GPS information in addition to the global navigation satellite
systems (GNSS), can still operate independently in the GPS-denied environment.
Recent deep learning based methods attribute this as the task of image matching
and retrieval. By retrieving drone-view images in geo-tagged satellite image
database, approximate localization information can be obtained. However, due to
high costs and privacy concerns, it is usually difficult to obtain large
quantities of drone-view images from a continuous area. Existing drone-view
datasets are mostly composed of small-scale aerial photography with a strong
assumption that there exists a perfect one-to-one aligned reference image for
any query, leaving a significant gap from the practical localization scenario.
In this work, we construct a large-range contiguous area UAV geo-localization
dataset named GTA-UAV, featuring multiple flight altitudes, attitudes, scenes,
and targets using modern computer games. Based on this dataset, we introduce a
more practical UAV geo-localization task including partial matches of
cross-view paired data, and expand the image-level retrieval to the actual
localization in terms of distance (meters). For the construction of drone-view
and satellite-view pairs, we adopt a weight-based contrastive learning
approach, which allows for effective learning while avoiding additional
post-processing matching steps. Experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of
our data and training method for UAV geo-localization, as well as the
generalization capabilities to real-world scenarios.

---

## 11. [TalkinNeRF: Animatable Neural Fields for Full-Body Talking Humans](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16666)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16666](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16666)

**Authors**: Aggelina Chatziagapi, Bindita Chaudhuri, Amit Kumar, Rakesh Ranjan, Dimitris Samaras, Nikolaos Sarafianos

**Published**: 2024-09-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

We introduce a novel framework that learns a dynamic neural radiance field
(NeRF) for full-body talking humans from monocular videos. Prior work
represents only the body pose or the face. However, humans communicate with
their full body, combining body pose, hand gestures, as well as facial
expressions. In this work, we propose TalkinNeRF, a unified NeRF-based network
that represents the holistic 4D human motion. Given a monocular video of a
subject, we learn corresponding modules for the body, face, and hands, that are
combined together to generate the final result. To capture complex finger
articulation, we learn an additional deformation field for the hands. Our
multi-identity representation enables simultaneous training for multiple
subjects, as well as robust animation under completely unseen poses. It can
also generalize to novel identities, given only a short video as input. We
demonstrate state-of-the-art performance for animating full-body talking
humans, with fine-grained hand articulation and facial expressions.

---

## 12. [Self-Supervised Any-Point Tracking by Contrastive Random Walks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16288)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16288](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16288)

**Authors**: Ayush Shrivastava, Andrew Owens

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-26 by Ayush Shrivastava

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ayshrv/gmrw)

### Abstract

We present a simple, self-supervised approach to the Tracking Any Point (TAP)
problem. We train a global matching transformer to find cycle consistent tracks
through video via contrastive random walks, using the transformer's
attention-based global matching to define the transition matrices for a random
walk on a space-time graph. The ability to perform "all pairs" comparisons
between points allows the model to obtain high spatial precision and to obtain
a strong contrastive learning signal, while avoiding many of the complexities
of recent approaches (such as coarse-to-fine matching). To do this, we propose
a number of design decisions that allow global matching architectures to be
trained through self-supervision using cycle consistency. For example, we
identify that transformer-based methods are sensitive to shortcut solutions,
and propose a data augmentation scheme to address them. Our method achieves
strong performance on the TapVid benchmarks, outperforming previous
self-supervised tracking methods, such as DIFT, and is competitive with several
supervised methods.

---
