# Daily Papers - 2024-09-25

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-25)

Total papers: 18

---

## 1. [HelloBench: Evaluating Long Text Generation Capabilities of Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16191)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16191](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16191)

**Authors**: Haoran Que, Feiyu Duan, Liqun He, Yutao Mou, Wangchunshu Zhou, Jiaheng Liu, Wenge Rong, Zekun Moore Wang, Jian Yang, Ge Zhang, Junran Peng, Zhaoxiang Zhang, Songyang Zhang, Kai Chen

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Songyang Zhang

**Upvotes**: 41

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/quehry/hellobench)

### Abstract

In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable
capabilities in various tasks (e.g., long-context understanding), and many
benchmarks have been proposed. However, we observe that long text generation
capabilities are not well investigated. Therefore, we introduce the
Hierarchical Long Text Generation Benchmark (HelloBench), a comprehensive,
in-the-wild, and open-ended benchmark to evaluate LLMs' performance in
generating long text. Based on Bloom's Taxonomy, HelloBench categorizes long
text generation tasks into five subtasks: open-ended QA, summarization, chat,
text completion, and heuristic text generation. Besides, we propose
Hierarchical Long Text Evaluation (HelloEval), a human-aligned evaluation
method that significantly reduces the time and effort required for human
evaluation while maintaining a high correlation with human evaluation. We have
conducted extensive experiments across around 30 mainstream LLMs and observed
that the current LLMs lack long text generation capabilities. Specifically,
first, regardless of whether the instructions include explicit or implicit
length constraints, we observe that most LLMs cannot generate text that is
longer than 4000 words. Second, we observe that while some LLMs can generate
longer text, many issues exist (e.g., severe repetition and quality
degradation). Third, to demonstrate the effectiveness of HelloEval, we compare
HelloEval with traditional metrics (e.g., ROUGE, BLEU, etc.) and LLM-as-a-Judge
methods, which show that HelloEval has the highest correlation with human
evaluation. We release our code in https://github.com/Quehry/HelloBench.

---

## 2. [MIMO: Controllable Character Video Synthesis with Spatial Decomposed
  Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16160)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16160](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16160)

**Authors**: Yifang Men, Yuan Yao, Miaomiao Cui, Liefeng Bo

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 34

### Abstract

Character video synthesis aims to produce realistic videos of animatable
characters within lifelike scenes. As a fundamental problem in the computer
vision and graphics community, 3D works typically require multi-view captures
for per-case training, which severely limits their applicability of modeling
arbitrary characters in a short time. Recent 2D methods break this limitation
via pre-trained diffusion models, but they struggle for pose generality and
scene interaction. To this end, we propose MIMO, a novel framework which can
not only synthesize character videos with controllable attributes (i.e.,
character, motion and scene) provided by simple user inputs, but also
simultaneously achieve advanced scalability to arbitrary characters, generality
to novel 3D motions, and applicability to interactive real-world scenes in a
unified framework. The core idea is to encode the 2D video to compact spatial
codes, considering the inherent 3D nature of video occurrence. Concretely, we
lift the 2D frame pixels into 3D using monocular depth estimators, and
decompose the video clip to three spatial components (i.e., main human,
underlying scene, and floating occlusion) in hierarchical layers based on the
3D depth. These components are further encoded to canonical identity code,
structured motion code and full scene code, which are utilized as control
signals of synthesis process. The design of spatial decomposed modeling enables
flexible user control, complex motion expression, as well as 3D-aware synthesis
for scene interactions. Experimental results demonstrate effectiveness and
robustness of the proposed method.

---

## 3. [OmniBench: Towards The Future of Universal Omni-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15272)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15272](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15272)

**Authors**: Yizhi Li, Ge Zhang, Yinghao Ma, Ruibin Yuan, Kang Zhu, Hangyu Guo, Yiming Liang, Jiaheng Liu, Jian Yang, Siwei Wu, Xingwei Qu, Jinjie Shi, Xinyue Zhang, Zhenzhu Yang, Xiangzhou Wang, Zhaoxiang Zhang, Zachary Liu, Emmanouil Benetos, Wenhao Huang, Chenghua Lin

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Yizhi Li

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/multimodal-art-projection/OmniBench) | [Project Page](https://m-a-p.ai/OmniBench/#leaderboard)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have aimed to
integrate and interpret data across diverse modalities. However, the capacity
of these models to concurrently process and reason about multiple modalities
remains inadequately explored, partly due to the lack of comprehensive
modality-wise benchmarks. We introduce OmniBench, a novel benchmark designed to
rigorously evaluate models' ability to recognize, interpret, and reason across
visual, acoustic, and textual inputs simultaneously. We define models capable
of such tri-modal processing as omni-language models (OLMs). OmniBench is
distinguished by high-quality human annotations, ensuring that accurate
responses require integrated understanding and reasoning across all three
modalities. Our main findings reveal that: i) open-source OLMs exhibit critical
limitations in instruction-following and reasoning capabilities within
tri-modal contexts; and ii) the baseline models perform poorly (below 50%
accuracy) even when provided with alternative textual representations of images
and audio. These results suggest that the ability to construct a consistent
context from text, image, and audio is often overlooked in existing MLLM
training paradigms. We advocate for future research to focus on developing more
robust tri-modal integration techniques and training strategies to enhance OLM
performance across diverse modalities. The codes and live leaderboard could be
found at https://m-a-p.ai/OmniBench.

---

## 4. [EuroLLM: Multilingual Language Models for Europe](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16235)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16235](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16235)

**Authors**: Pedro Henrique Martins, Patrick Fernandes, João Alves, Nuno M. Guerreiro, Ricardo Rei, Duarte M. Alves, José Pombal, Amin Farajian, Manuel Faysse, Mateusz Klimaszewski, Pierre Colombo, Barry Haddow, José G. C. de Souza, Alexandra Birch, André F. T. Martins

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

The quality of open-weight LLMs has seen significant improvement, yet they
remain predominantly focused on English. In this paper, we introduce the
EuroLLM project, aimed at developing a suite of open-weight multilingual LLMs
capable of understanding and generating text in all official European Union
languages, as well as several additional relevant languages. We outline the
progress made to date, detailing our data collection and filtering process, the
development of scaling laws, the creation of our multilingual tokenizer, and
the data mix and modeling configurations. Additionally, we release our initial
models: EuroLLM-1.7B and EuroLLM-1.7B-Instruct and report their performance on
multilingual general benchmarks and machine translation.

---

## 5. [Making Text Embedders Few-Shot Learners](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15700)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15700](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15700)

**Authors**: Chaofan Li, MingHao Qin, Shitao Xiao, Jianlyu Chen, Kun Luo, Yingxia Shao, Defu Lian, Zheng Liu

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) with decoder-only architectures demonstrate
remarkable in-context learning (ICL) capabilities. This feature enables them to
effectively handle both familiar and novel tasks by utilizing examples provided
within their input context. Recognizing the potential of this capability, we
propose leveraging the ICL feature in LLMs to enhance the process of text
embedding generation. To this end, we introduce a novel model bge-en-icl, which
employs few-shot examples to produce high-quality text embeddings. Our approach
integrates task-related examples directly into the query side, resulting in
significant improvements across various tasks. Additionally, we have
investigated how to effectively utilize LLMs as embedding models, including
various attention mechanisms, pooling methods, etc. Our findings suggest that
retaining the original framework often yields the best results, underscoring
that simplicity is best. Experimental results on the MTEB and AIR-Bench
benchmarks demonstrate that our approach sets new state-of-the-art (SOTA)
performance. Our model, code and dataset are freely available at
https://github.com/FlagOpen/FlagEmbedding .

---

## 6. [Present and Future Generalization of Synthetic Image Detectors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.14128)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.14128](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14128)

**Authors**: Pablo Bernabeu-Perez, Enrique Lopez-Cuena, Dario Garcia-Gasulla

**Published**: 2024-09-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Dario

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/HPAI-BSC/SuSy)

### Abstract

The continued release of new and better image generation models increases the
demand for synthetic image detectors. In such a dynamic field, detectors need
to be able to generalize widely and be robust to uncontrolled alterations. The
present work is motivated by this setting, when looking at the role of time,
image transformations and data sources, for detector generalization. In these
experiments, none of the evaluated detectors is found universal, but results
indicate an ensemble could be. Experiments on data collected in the wild show
this task to be more challenging than the one defined by large-scale datasets,
pointing to a gap between experimentation and actual practice. Finally, we
observe a race equilibrium effect, where better generators lead to better
detectors, and vice versa. We hypothesize this pushes the field towards a
perpetually close race between generators and detectors.

---

## 7. [MonoFormer: One Transformer for Both Diffusion and Autoregression](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16280)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16280](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16280)

**Authors**: Chuyang Zhao, Yuxing Song, Wenhao Wang, Haocheng Feng, Errui Ding, Yifan Sun, Xinyan Xiao, Jingdong Wang

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Wenhao Wang

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MonoFormer/MonoFormer)

### Abstract

Most existing multimodality methods use separate backbones for
autoregression-based discrete text generation and diffusion-based continuous
visual generation, or the same backbone by discretizing the visual data to use
autoregression for both text and visual generation. In this paper, we propose
to study a simple idea: share one transformer for both autoregression and
diffusion. The feasibility comes from two main aspects: (i) Transformer is
successfully applied to diffusion for visual generation, and (ii) transformer
training for autoregression and diffusion is very similar, and the difference
merely lies in that diffusion uses bidirectional attention mask and
autoregression uses causal attention mask. Experimental results show that our
approach achieves comparable image generation performance to current
state-of-the-art methods as well as maintains the text generation capability.
The project is publicly available at https://monoformer.github.io/.

---

## 8. [MaskBit: Embedding-free Image Generation via Bit Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16211)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16211](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16211)

**Authors**: Mark Weber, Lijun Yu, Qihang Yu, Xueqing Deng, Xiaohui Shen, Daniel Cremers, Liang-Chieh Chen

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/markweberdev/maskbit)

### Abstract

Masked transformer models for class-conditional image generation have become
a compelling alternative to diffusion models. Typically comprising two stages -
an initial VQGAN model for transitioning between latent space and image space,
and a subsequent Transformer model for image generation within latent space -
these frameworks offer promising avenues for image synthesis. In this study, we
present two primary contributions: Firstly, an empirical and systematic
examination of VQGANs, leading to a modernized VQGAN. Secondly, a novel
embedding-free generation network operating directly on bit tokens - a binary
quantized representation of tokens with rich semantics. The first contribution
furnishes a transparent, reproducible, and high-performing VQGAN model,
enhancing accessibility and matching the performance of current
state-of-the-art methods while revealing previously undisclosed details. The
second contribution demonstrates that embedding-free image generation using bit
tokens achieves a new state-of-the-art FID of 1.52 on the ImageNet 256x256
benchmark, with a compact generator model of mere 305M parameters.

---

## 9. [Seeing Faces in Things: A Model and Dataset for Pareidolia](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16143)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16143](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16143)

**Authors**: Mark Hamilton, Simon Stent, Vasha DuTell, Anne Harrington, Jennifer Corbett, Ruth Rosenholtz, William T. Freeman

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Mark Hamilton

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

The human visual system is well-tuned to detect faces of all shapes and
sizes. While this brings obvious survival advantages, such as a better chance
of spotting unknown predators in the bush, it also leads to spurious face
detections. ``Face pareidolia'' describes the perception of face-like structure
among otherwise random stimuli: seeing faces in coffee stains or clouds in the
sky. In this paper, we study face pareidolia from a computer vision
perspective. We present an image dataset of ``Faces in Things'', consisting of
five thousand web images with human-annotated pareidolic faces. Using this
dataset, we examine the extent to which a state-of-the-art human face detector
exhibits pareidolia, and find a significant behavioral gap between humans and
machines. We find that the evolutionary need for humans to detect animal faces,
as well as human faces, may explain some of this gap. Finally, we propose a
simple statistical model of pareidolia in images. Through studies on human
subjects and our pareidolic face detectors we confirm a key prediction of our
model regarding what image conditions are most likely to induce pareidolia.
Dataset and Website: https://aka.ms/faces-in-things

---

## 10. [Time-MoE: Billion-Scale Time Series Foundation Models with Mixture of
  Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16040)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16040](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16040)

**Authors**: Xiaoming Shi, Shiyu Wang, Yuqi Nie, Dianqi Li, Zhou Ye, Qingsong Wen, Ming Jin

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/time-moe/time-moe)

### Abstract

Deep learning for time series forecasting has seen significant advancements
over the past decades. However, despite the success of large-scale pre-training
in language and vision domains, pre-trained time series models remain limited
in scale and operate at a high cost, hindering the development of larger
capable forecasting models in real-world applications. In response, we
introduce Time-MoE, a scalable and unified architecture designed to pre-train
larger, more capable forecasting foundation models while reducing inference
costs. By leveraging a sparse mixture-of-experts (MoE) design, Time-MoE
enhances computational efficiency by activating only a subset of networks for
each prediction, reducing computational load while maintaining high model
capacity. This allows Time-MoE to scale effectively without a corresponding
increase in inference costs. Time-MoE comprises a family of decoder-only
transformer models that operate in an auto-regressive manner and support
flexible forecasting horizons with varying input context lengths. We
pre-trained these models on our newly introduced large-scale data Time-300B,
which spans over 9 domains and encompassing over 300 billion time points. For
the first time, we scaled a time series foundation model up to 2.4 billion
parameters, achieving significantly improved forecasting precision. Our results
validate the applicability of scaling laws for training tokens and model size
in the context of time series forecasting. Compared to dense models with the
same number of activated parameters or equivalent computation budgets, our
models consistently outperform them by large margin. These advancements
position Time-MoE as a state-of-the-art solution for tackling real-world time
series forecasting challenges with superior capability, efficiency, and
flexibility.

---

## 11. [Improvements to SDXL in NovelAI Diffusion V3](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15997)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15997](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15997)

**Authors**: Juan Ossa, Eren Doğan, Alex Birch, F. Johnson

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Julien Chaumond

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

In this technical report, we document the changes we made to SDXL in the
process of training NovelAI Diffusion V3, our state of the art anime image
generation model.

---

## 12. [Attention Prompting on Image for Large Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.17143)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.17143](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17143)

**Authors**: Runpeng Yu, Weihao Yu, Xinchao Wang

**Published**: 2024-09-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Runpeng Yu

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yu-rp/apiprompting)

### Abstract

Compared with Large Language Models (LLMs), Large Vision-Language Models
(LVLMs) can also accept images as input, thus showcasing more interesting
emergent capabilities and demonstrating impressive performance on various
vision-language tasks. Motivated by text prompting in LLMs, visual prompting
has been explored to enhance LVLMs' capabilities of perceiving visual
information. However, previous visual prompting techniques solely process
visual inputs without considering text queries, limiting the models' ability to
follow text instructions to complete tasks. To fill this gap, in this work, we
propose a new prompting technique named Attention Prompting on Image, which
just simply overlays a text-query-guided attention heatmap on the original
input image and effectively enhances LVLM on various tasks. Specifically, we
generate an attention heatmap for the input image dependent on the text query
with an auxiliary model like CLIP. Then the heatmap simply multiplies the pixel
values of the original image to obtain the actual input image for the LVLM.
Extensive experiments on various vison-language benchmarks verify the
effectiveness of our technique. For example, Attention Prompting on Image
improves LLaVA-1.5 by 3.8% and 2.9% on MM-Vet and LLaVA-Wild benchmarks,
respectively.

---

## 13. [Gen2Act: Human Video Generation in Novel Scenarios enables Generalizable
  Robot Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.16283)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.16283](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16283)

**Authors**: Homanga Bharadhwaj, Debidatta Dwibedi, Abhinav Gupta, Shubham Tulsiani, Carl Doersch, Ted Xiao, Dhruv Shah, Fei Xia, Dorsa Sadigh, Sean Kirmani

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

How can robot manipulation policies generalize to novel tasks involving
unseen object types and new motions? In this paper, we provide a solution in
terms of predicting motion information from web data through human video
generation and conditioning a robot policy on the generated video. Instead of
attempting to scale robot data collection which is expensive, we show how we
can leverage video generation models trained on easily available web data, for
enabling generalization. Our approach Gen2Act casts language-conditioned
manipulation as zero-shot human video generation followed by execution with a
single policy conditioned on the generated video. To train the policy, we use
an order of magnitude less robot interaction data compared to what the video
prediction model was trained on. Gen2Act doesn't require fine-tuning the video
model at all and we directly use a pre-trained model for generating human
videos. Our results on diverse real-world scenarios show how Gen2Act enables
manipulating unseen object types and performing novel motions for tasks not
present in the robot data. Videos are at https://homangab.github.io/gen2act/

---

## 14. [Reward-Robust RLHF in LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15360)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15360](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15360)

**Authors**: Yuzi Yan, Xingzhou Lou, Jialian Li, Yiping Zhang, Jian Xie, Chao Yu, Yu Wang, Dong Yan, Yuan Shen

**Published**: 2024-09-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

As Large Language Models (LLMs) continue to progress toward more advanced
forms of intelligence, Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) is
increasingly seen as a key pathway toward achieving Artificial General
Intelligence (AGI). However, the reliance on reward-model-based (RM-based)
alignment methods introduces significant challenges due to the inherent
instability and imperfections of Reward Models (RMs), which can lead to
critical issues such as reward hacking and misalignment with human intentions.
In this paper, we introduce a reward-robust RLHF framework aimed at addressing
these fundamental challenges, paving the way for more reliable and resilient
learning in LLMs. Our approach introduces a novel optimization objective that
carefully balances performance and robustness by incorporating Bayesian Reward
Model Ensembles (BRME) to model the uncertainty set of reward functions. This
allows the framework to integrate both nominal performance and minimum reward
signals, ensuring more stable learning even with imperfect reward models.
Empirical results demonstrate that our framework consistently outperforms
traditional RLHF across diverse benchmarks, showing improved accuracy and
long-term stability. We also provide a theoretical analysis, demonstrating that
reward-robust RLHF approaches the stability of constant reward settings, which
proves to be effective in a stochastic-case analysis. Together, these
contributions highlight the framework potential to enhance both the performance
and stability of LLM alignment with RLHF.

---

## 15. [RRM: Robust Reward Model Training Mitigates Reward Hacking](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.13156)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.13156](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.13156)

**Authors**: Tianqi Liu, Wei Xiong, Jie Ren, Lichang Chen, Junru Wu, Rishabh Joshi, Yang Gao, Jiaming Shen, Zhen Qin, Tianhe Yu, Daniel Sohn, Anastasiia Makarova, Jeremiah Liu, Yuan Liu, Bilal Piot, Abe Ittycheriah, Aviral Kumar, Mohammad Saleh

**Published**: 2024-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Tianqi Liu

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Reward models (RMs) play a pivotal role in aligning large language models
(LLMs) with human preferences. However, traditional RM training, which relies
on response pairs tied to specific prompts, struggles to disentangle
prompt-driven preferences from prompt-independent artifacts, such as response
length and format. In this work, we expose a fundamental limitation of current
RM training methods, where RMs fail to effectively distinguish between
contextual signals and irrelevant artifacts when determining preferences. To
address this, we introduce a causal framework that learns preferences
independent of these artifacts and propose a novel data augmentation technique
designed to eliminate them. Extensive experiments show that our approach
successfully filters out undesirable artifacts, yielding a more robust reward
model (RRM). Our RRM improves the performance of a pairwise reward model
trained on Gemma-2-9b-it, on RewardBench, increasing accuracy from 80.61% to
84.15%. Additionally, we train two DPO policies using both the RM and RRM,
demonstrating that the RRM significantly enhances DPO-aligned policies,
improving MT-Bench scores from 7.27 to 8.31 and length-controlled win-rates in
AlpacaEval-2 from 33.46% to 52.49%.

---

## 16. [SLIMER-IT: Zero-Shot NER on Italian Language](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15933)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15933](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15933)

**Authors**: Andrew Zamai, Leonardo Rigutini, Marco Maggini, Andrea Zugarini

**Published**: 2024-09-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Andrew Zamai

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/andrewzamai/slimer_it)

### Abstract

Traditional approaches to Named Entity Recognition (NER) frame the task into
a BIO sequence labeling problem. Although these systems often excel in the
downstream task at hand, they require extensive annotated data and struggle to
generalize to out-of-distribution input domains and unseen entity types. On the
contrary, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong zero-shot
capabilities. While several works address Zero-Shot NER in English, little has
been done in other languages. In this paper, we define an evaluation framework
for Zero-Shot NER, applying it to the Italian language. Furthermore, we
introduce SLIMER-IT, the Italian version of SLIMER, an instruction-tuning
approach for zero-shot NER leveraging prompts enriched with definition and
guidelines. Comparisons with other state-of-the-art models, demonstrate the
superiority of SLIMER-IT on never-seen-before entity tags.

---

## 17. [DynaMo: In-Domain Dynamics Pretraining for Visuo-Motor Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.12192)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.12192](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12192)

**Authors**: Zichen Jeff Cui, Hengkai Pan, Aadhithya Iyer, Siddhant Haldar, Lerrel Pinto

**Published**: 2024-09-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Fangyuan Yu

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Imitation learning has proven to be a powerful tool for training complex
visuomotor policies. However, current methods often require hundreds to
thousands of expert demonstrations to handle high-dimensional visual
observations. A key reason for this poor data efficiency is that visual
representations are predominantly either pretrained on out-of-domain data or
trained directly through a behavior cloning objective. In this work, we present
DynaMo, a new in-domain, self-supervised method for learning visual
representations. Given a set of expert demonstrations, we jointly learn a
latent inverse dynamics model and a forward dynamics model over a sequence of
image embeddings, predicting the next frame in latent space, without
augmentations, contrastive sampling, or access to ground truth actions.
Importantly, DynaMo does not require any out-of-domain data such as Internet
datasets or cross-embodied datasets. On a suite of six simulated and real
environments, we show that representations learned with DynaMo significantly
improve downstream imitation learning performance over prior self-supervised
learning objectives, and pretrained representations. Gains from using DynaMo
hold across policy classes such as Behavior Transformer, Diffusion Policy, MLP,
and nearest neighbors. Finally, we ablate over key components of DynaMo and
measure its impact on downstream policy performance. Robot videos are best
viewed at https://dynamo-ssl.github.io

---

## 18. [Tabular Data Generation using Binary Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.13882)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.13882](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.13882)

**Authors**: Vitaliy Kinakh, Slava Voloshynovskiy

**Published**: 2024-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-25 by Vitaliy Kinakh

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vkinakh/binary-diffusion-tabular)

### Abstract

Generating synthetic tabular data is critical in machine learning, especially
when real data is limited or sensitive. Traditional generative models often
face challenges due to the unique characteristics of tabular data, such as
mixed data types and varied distributions, and require complex preprocessing or
large pretrained models. In this paper, we introduce a novel, lossless binary
transformation method that converts any tabular data into fixed-size binary
representations, and a corresponding new generative model called Binary
Diffusion, specifically designed for binary data. Binary Diffusion leverages
the simplicity of XOR operations for noise addition and removal and employs
binary cross-entropy loss for training. Our approach eliminates the need for
extensive preprocessing, complex noise parameter tuning, and pretraining on
large datasets. We evaluate our model on several popular tabular benchmark
datasets, demonstrating that Binary Diffusion outperforms existing
state-of-the-art models on Travel, Adult Income, and Diabetes datasets while
being significantly smaller in size.

---
