# Daily Papers - 2024-09-24

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-24)

Total papers: 14

---

## 1. [RACER: Rich Language-Guided Failure Recovery Policies for Imitation
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.14674)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.14674](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14674)

**Authors**: Yinpei Dai, Jayjun Lee, Nima Fazeli, Joyce Chai

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by Ting-En Lin

**Upvotes**: 42

### Abstract

Developing robust and correctable visuomotor policies for robotic
manipulation is challenging due to the lack of self-recovery mechanisms from
failures and the limitations of simple language instructions in guiding robot
actions. To address these issues, we propose a scalable data generation
pipeline that automatically augments expert demonstrations with failure
recovery trajectories and fine-grained language annotations for training. We
then introduce Rich languAge-guided failure reCovERy (RACER), a
supervisor-actor framework, which combines failure recovery data with rich
language descriptions to enhance robot control. RACER features a
vision-language model (VLM) that acts as an online supervisor, providing
detailed language guidance for error correction and task execution, and a
language-conditioned visuomotor policy as an actor to predict the next actions.
Our experimental results show that RACER outperforms the state-of-the-art
Robotic View Transformer (RVT) on RLbench across various evaluation settings,
including standard long-horizon tasks, dynamic goal-change tasks and zero-shot
unseen tasks, achieving superior performance in both simulated and real world
environments. Videos and code are available at:
https://rich-language-failure-recovery.github.io.

---

## 2. [A Preliminary Study of o1 in Medicine: Are We Closer to an AI Doctor?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15277)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15277](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15277)

**Authors**: Yunfei Xie, Juncheng Wu, Haoqin Tu, Siwei Yang, Bingchen Zhao, Yongshuo Zong, Qiao Jin, Cihang Xie, Yuyin Zhou

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by Bingchen Zhao

**Upvotes**: 38

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have exhibited remarkable capabilities across
various domains and tasks, pushing the boundaries of our knowledge in learning
and cognition. The latest model, OpenAI's o1, stands out as the first LLM with
an internalized chain-of-thought technique using reinforcement learning
strategies. While it has demonstrated surprisingly strong capabilities on
various general language tasks, its performance in specialized fields such as
medicine remains unknown. To this end, this report provides a comprehensive
exploration of o1 on different medical scenarios, examining 3 key aspects:
understanding, reasoning, and multilinguality. Specifically, our evaluation
encompasses 6 tasks using data from 37 medical datasets, including two newly
constructed and more challenging question-answering (QA) tasks based on
professional medical quizzes from the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM)
and The Lancet. These datasets offer greater clinical relevance compared to
standard medical QA benchmarks such as MedQA, translating more effectively into
real-world clinical utility. Our analysis of o1 suggests that the enhanced
reasoning ability of LLMs may (significantly) benefit their capability to
understand various medical instructions and reason through complex clinical
scenarios. Notably, o1 surpasses the previous GPT-4 in accuracy by an average
of 6.2% and 6.6% across 19 datasets and two newly created complex QA scenarios.
But meanwhile, we identify several weaknesses in both the model capability and
the existing evaluation protocols, including hallucination, inconsistent
multilingual ability, and discrepant metrics for evaluation. We release our raw
data and model outputs at https://ucsc-vlaa.github.io/o1_medicine/ for future
research.

---

## 3. [Phantom of Latent for Large Language and Vision Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.14713)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.14713](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14713)

**Authors**: Byung-Kwan Lee, Sangyun Chung, Chae Won Kim, Beomchan Park, Yong Man Ro

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/byungkwanlee/phantom)

### Abstract

The success of visual instruction tuning has accelerated the development of
large language and vision models (LLVMs). Following the scaling laws of
instruction-tuned large language models (LLMs), LLVMs either have further
increased their sizes, reaching 26B, 34B, and even 80B parameters. While this
increase in model size has yielded significant performance gains, it demands
substantially more hardware resources for both training and inference.
Consequently, there naturally exists a strong need for efficient LLVMs that
achieve the performance of larger models while being smaller in size. To
achieve this need, we present a new efficient LLVM family with model sizes of
0.5B, 1.8B, 3.8B, and 7B parameters, Phantom, which significantly enhances
learning capabilities within limited structures. By temporarily increasing the
latent hidden dimension during multi-head self-attention (MHSA), we make LLVMs
prepare to look and understand much more vision-language knowledge on the
latent, without substantially increasing physical model sizes. To maximize its
advantage, we introduce Phantom Optimization (PO) using both autoregressive
supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and direct preference optimization (DPO)-like
concept, which effectively follows correct answers while eliminating incorrect
and ambiguous ones. Phantom outperforms numerous larger open- and closed-source
LLVMs, positioning itself as a leading solution in the landscape of efficient
LLVMs.

---

## 4. [PixWizard: Versatile Image-to-Image Visual Assistant with Open-Language
  Instructions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15278)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15278](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15278)

**Authors**: Weifeng Lin, Xinyu Wei, Renrui Zhang, Le Zhuo, Shitian Zhao, Siyuan Huang, Junlin Xie, Yu Qiao, Peng Gao, Hongsheng Li

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by Renrui

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/afeng-x/pixwizard)

### Abstract

This paper presents a versatile image-to-image visual assistant, PixWizard,
designed for image generation, manipulation, and translation based on free-from
language instructions. To this end, we tackle a variety of vision tasks into a
unified image-text-to-image generation framework and curate an Omni
Pixel-to-Pixel Instruction-Tuning Dataset. By constructing detailed instruction
templates in natural language, we comprehensively include a large set of
diverse vision tasks such as text-to-image generation, image restoration, image
grounding, dense image prediction, image editing, controllable generation,
inpainting/outpainting, and more. Furthermore, we adopt Diffusion Transformers
(DiT) as our foundation model and extend its capabilities with a flexible any
resolution mechanism, enabling the model to dynamically process images based on
the aspect ratio of the input, closely aligning with human perceptual
processes. The model also incorporates structure-aware and semantic-aware
guidance to facilitate effective fusion of information from the input image.
Our experiments demonstrate that PixWizard not only shows impressive generative
and understanding abilities for images with diverse resolutions but also
exhibits promising generalization capabilities with unseen tasks and human
instructions. The code and related resources are available at
https://github.com/AFeng-x/PixWizard

---

## 5. [Beyond Fine-tuning: Unleashing the Potential of Continuous Pretraining
  for Clinical LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.14988)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.14988](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14988)

**Authors**: Clément Christophe, Tathagata Raha, Svetlana Maslenkova, Muhammad Umar Salman, Praveen K Kanithi, Marco AF Pimentel, Shadab Khan

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by Clément Christophe

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant potential in
transforming clinical applications. In this study, we investigate the efficacy
of four techniques in adapting LLMs for clinical use-cases: continuous
pretraining, instruct fine-tuning, NEFTune, and prompt engineering. We employ
these methods on Mistral 7B and Mixtral 8x7B models, leveraging a large-scale
clinical pretraining dataset of 50 billion tokens and an instruct fine-tuning
dataset of 500 million tokens. Our evaluation across various clinical tasks
reveals the impact of each technique. While continuous pretraining beyond 250
billion tokens yields marginal improvements on its own, it establishes a strong
foundation for instruct fine-tuning. Notably, NEFTune, designed primarily to
enhance generation quality, surprisingly demonstrates additional gains on our
benchmark. Complex prompt engineering methods further enhance performance.
These findings show the importance of tailoring fine-tuning strategies and
exploring innovative techniques to optimize LLM performance in the clinical
domain.

---

## 6. [Reflecting Reality: Enabling Diffusion Models to Produce Faithful Mirror
  Reflections](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.14677)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.14677](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14677)

**Authors**: Ankit Dhiman, Manan Shah, Rishubh Parihar, Yash Bhalgat, Lokesh R Boregowda, R Venkatesh Babu

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by Manan Shah

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/val-iisc/Reflecting-Reality) | [Project Page](https://val.cds.iisc.ac.in/reflecting-reality.github.io/)

### Abstract

We tackle the problem of generating highly realistic and plausible mirror
reflections using diffusion-based generative models. We formulate this problem
as an image inpainting task, allowing for more user control over the placement
of mirrors during the generation process. To enable this, we create SynMirror,
a large-scale dataset of diverse synthetic scenes with objects placed in front
of mirrors. SynMirror contains around 198K samples rendered from 66K unique 3D
objects, along with their associated depth maps, normal maps and instance-wise
segmentation masks, to capture relevant geometric properties of the scene.
Using this dataset, we propose a novel depth-conditioned inpainting method
called MirrorFusion, which generates high-quality geometrically consistent and
photo-realistic mirror reflections given an input image and a mask depicting
the mirror region. MirrorFusion outperforms state-of-the-art methods on
SynMirror, as demonstrated by extensive quantitative and qualitative analysis.
To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to successfully tackle the
challenging problem of generating controlled and faithful mirror reflections of
an object in a scene using diffusion based models. SynMirror and MirrorFusion
open up new avenues for image editing and augmented reality applications for
practitioners and researchers alike.

---

## 7. [MaterialFusion: Enhancing Inverse Rendering with Material Diffusion
  Priors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15273)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15273](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15273)

**Authors**: Yehonathan Litman, Or Patashnik, Kangle Deng, Aviral Agrawal, Rushikesh Zawar, Fernando De la Torre, Shubham Tulsiani

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Recent works in inverse rendering have shown promise in using multi-view
images of an object to recover shape, albedo, and materials. However, the
recovered components often fail to render accurately under new lighting
conditions due to the intrinsic challenge of disentangling albedo and material
properties from input images. To address this challenge, we introduce
MaterialFusion, an enhanced conventional 3D inverse rendering pipeline that
incorporates a 2D prior on texture and material properties. We present
StableMaterial, a 2D diffusion model prior that refines multi-lit data to
estimate the most likely albedo and material from given input appearances. This
model is trained on albedo, material, and relit image data derived from a
curated dataset of approximately ~12K artist-designed synthetic Blender objects
called BlenderVault. we incorporate this diffusion prior with an inverse
rendering framework where we use score distillation sampling (SDS) to guide the
optimization of the albedo and materials, improving relighting performance in
comparison with previous work. We validate MaterialFusion's relighting
performance on 4 datasets of synthetic and real objects under diverse
illumination conditions, showing our diffusion-aided approach significantly
improves the appearance of reconstructed objects under novel lighting
conditions. We intend to publicly release our BlenderVault dataset to support
further research in this field.

---

## 8. [Style over Substance: Failure Modes of LLM Judges in Alignment
  Benchmarking](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.15268)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.15268](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15268)

**Authors**: Benjamin Feuer, Micah Goldblum, Teresa Datta, Sanjana Nambiar, Raz Besaleli, Samuel Dooley, Max Cembalest, John P. Dickerson

**Published**: 2024-09-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by Benjamin Feuer

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/penfever/sos-bench)

### Abstract

The release of ChatGPT in November 2022 sparked an explosion of interest in
post-training and an avalanche of new preference optimization (PO) methods.
These methods claim superior alignment by virtue of better correspondence with
human pairwise preferences, often measured by LLM judges. In this work, we
attempt to answer the following question -- do LLM-judge preferences translate
to progress on other, more concrete metrics for alignment, and if not, why not?
We define a concrete metric for alignment, and introduce SOS-Bench, the largest
standardized, reproducible LLM meta-benchmark to date. We find that (1)
LLM-judgments do not correlate with concrete measures of safety, world
knowledge, and instruction following; (2) LLM judges have powerful implicit
biases, prioritizing style over factuality and safety; and (3) the supervised
fine-tuning (SFT) stage of post-training, and not the PO stage, has the
greatest impact on alignment, with data scaling and prompt diversity as the
driving factors. Our codebase and complete results can be found at
https://github.com/penfever/sos-bench.

---

## 9. [MaskedMimic: Unified Physics-Based Character Control Through Masked
  Motion Inpainting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.14393)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.14393](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14393)

**Authors**: Chen Tessler, Yunrong Guo, Ofir Nabati, Gal Chechik, Xue Bin Peng

**Published**: 2024-09-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Crafting a single, versatile physics-based controller that can breathe life
into interactive characters across a wide spectrum of scenarios represents an
exciting frontier in character animation. An ideal controller should support
diverse control modalities, such as sparse target keyframes, text instructions,
and scene information. While previous works have proposed physically simulated,
scene-aware control models, these systems have predominantly focused on
developing controllers that each specializes in a narrow set of tasks and
control modalities. This work presents MaskedMimic, a novel approach that
formulates physics-based character control as a general motion inpainting
problem. Our key insight is to train a single unified model to synthesize
motions from partial (masked) motion descriptions, such as masked keyframes,
objects, text descriptions, or any combination thereof. This is achieved by
leveraging motion tracking data and designing a scalable training method that
can effectively utilize diverse motion descriptions to produce coherent
animations. Through this process, our approach learns a physics-based
controller that provides an intuitive control interface without requiring
tedious reward engineering for all behaviors of interest. The resulting
controller supports a wide range of control modalities and enables seamless
transitions between disparate tasks. By unifying character control through
motion inpainting, MaskedMimic creates versatile virtual characters. These
characters can dynamically adapt to complex scenes and compose diverse motions
on demand, enabling more interactive and immersive experiences.

---

## 10. [Zero-shot Cross-lingual Voice Transfer for TTS](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.13910)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.13910](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.13910)

**Authors**: Fadi Biadsy, Youzheng Chen, Isaac Elias, Kyle Kastner, Gary Wang, Andrew Rosenberg, Bhuvana Ramabhadran

**Published**: 2024-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce a zero-shot Voice Transfer (VT) module that can
be seamlessly integrated into a multi-lingual Text-to-speech (TTS) system to
transfer an individual's voice across languages. Our proposed VT module
comprises a speaker-encoder that processes reference speech, a bottleneck
layer, and residual adapters, connected to preexisting TTS layers. We compare
the performance of various configurations of these components and report Mean
Opinion Score (MOS) and Speaker Similarity across languages. Using a single
English reference speech per speaker, we achieve an average voice transfer
similarity score of 73% across nine target languages. Vocal characteristics
contribute significantly to the construction and perception of individual
identity. The loss of one's voice, due to physical or neurological conditions,
can lead to a profound sense of loss, impacting one's core identity. As a case
study, we demonstrate that our approach can not only transfer typical speech
but also restore the voices of individuals with dysarthria, even when only
atypical speech samples are available - a valuable utility for those who have
never had typical speech or banked their voice. Cross-lingual typical audio
samples, plus videos demonstrating voice restoration for dysarthric speakers
are available here
(google.github.io/tacotron/publications/zero_shot_voice_transfer).

---

## 11. [An adapted large language model facilitates multiple medical tasks in
  diabetes care](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.13191)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.13191](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.13191)

**Authors**: Lai Wei, Zhen Ying, Muyang He, Yutong Chen, Qian Yang, Yanzhe Hong, Jiaping Lu, Xiaoying Li, Weiran Huang, Ying Chen

**Published**: 2024-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by Lai Wei

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/waltonfuture/Diabetica)

### Abstract

Diabetes is a chronic disease that poses a significant global health burden,
and optimizing diabetes management requires multi-stakeholder collaboration.
Large language models (LLMs) have shown promise in various healthcare
scenarios, but their effectiveness across a diverse range of diabetes tasks
remains unproven. In this study, we introduced a framework to train and
validate diabetes-specific LLMs. We first developed a comprehensive data
processing pipeline that includes data collection, filtering, augmentation and
refinement. This approach contributes to creating a high-quality,
diabetes-specific dataset, and several evaluation benchmarks entirely from
scratch. Utilizing the collected training dataset, we fine-tuned a
diabetes-specific LLM family that demonstrated state-of-the-art proficiency in
understanding and processing various diabetes tasks compared to other LLMs.
Furthermore, clinical studies showed the potential applications of our models
in diabetes care, including providing personalized healthcare, assisting
medical education, and streamlining clinical tasks. In conclusion, our study
introduced a framework to develop and evaluate a diabetes-specific LLM family,
and highlighted its potential to enhance clinical practice and provide
personalized, data-driven support for diabetes support when facing different
end users. The code is provided via GitHub at
https://github.com/waltonfuture/Diabetica.

---

## 12. [A Case Study of Web App Coding with OpenAI Reasoning Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.13773)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.13773](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.13773)

**Authors**: Yi Cui

**Published**: 2024-09-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by Yi Cui

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

This paper presents a case study of coding tasks by the latest reasoning
models of OpenAI, i.e. o1-preview and o1-mini, in comparison with other
frontier models. The o1 models deliver SOTA results for WebApp1K, a single-task
benchmark. To this end, we introduce WebApp1K-Duo, a harder benchmark doubling
number of tasks and test cases. The new benchmark causes the o1 model
performances to decline significantly, falling behind Claude 3.5. Moreover,
they consistently fail when confronted with atypical yet correct test cases, a
trap non-reasoning models occasionally avoid. We hypothesize that the
performance variability is due to instruction comprehension. Specifically, the
reasoning mechanism boosts performance when all expectations are captured,
meanwhile exacerbates errors when key expectations are missed, potentially
impacted by input lengths. As such, we argue that the coding success of
reasoning models hinges on the top-notch base model and SFT to ensure
meticulous adherence to instructions.

---

## 13. [SpaceBlender: Creating Context-Rich Collaborative Spaces Through
  Generative 3D Scene Blending](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.13926)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.13926](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.13926)

**Authors**: Nels Numan, Shwetha Rajaram, Balasaravanan Thoravi Kumaravel, Nicolai Marquardt, Andrew D. Wilson

**Published**: 2024-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by Nels

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

There is increased interest in using generative AI to create 3D spaces for
Virtual Reality (VR) applications. However, today's models produce artificial
environments, falling short of supporting collaborative tasks that benefit from
incorporating the user's physical context. To generate environments that
support VR telepresence, we introduce SpaceBlender, a novel pipeline that
utilizes generative AI techniques to blend users' physical surroundings into
unified virtual spaces. This pipeline transforms user-provided 2D images into
context-rich 3D environments through an iterative process consisting of depth
estimation, mesh alignment, and diffusion-based space completion guided by
geometric priors and adaptive text prompts. In a preliminary within-subjects
study, where 20 participants performed a collaborative VR affinity diagramming
task in pairs, we compared SpaceBlender with a generic virtual environment and
a state-of-the-art scene generation framework, evaluating its ability to create
virtual spaces suitable for collaboration. Participants appreciated the
enhanced familiarity and context provided by SpaceBlender but also noted
complexities in the generative environments that could detract from task focus.
Drawing on participant feedback, we propose directions for improving the
pipeline and discuss the value and design of blended spaces for different
scenarios.

---

## 14. [Self-Supervised Audio-Visual Soundscape Stylization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.14340)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.14340](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14340)

**Authors**: Tingle Li, Renhao Wang, Po-Yao Huang, Andrew Owens, Gopala Anumanchipalli

**Published**: 2024-09-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

Speech sounds convey a great deal of information about the scenes, resulting
in a variety of effects ranging from reverberation to additional ambient
sounds. In this paper, we manipulate input speech to sound as though it was
recorded within a different scene, given an audio-visual conditional example
recorded from that scene. Our model learns through self-supervision, taking
advantage of the fact that natural video contains recurring sound events and
textures. We extract an audio clip from a video and apply speech enhancement.
We then train a latent diffusion model to recover the original speech, using
another audio-visual clip taken from elsewhere in the video as a conditional
hint. Through this process, the model learns to transfer the conditional
example's sound properties to the input speech. We show that our model can be
successfully trained using unlabeled, in-the-wild videos, and that an
additional visual signal can improve its sound prediction abilities. Please see
our project webpage for video results:
https://tinglok.netlify.app/files/avsoundscape/

---
