# Daily Papers - 2024-09-09

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-09)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [How Do Your Code LLMs Perform? Empowering Code Instruction Tuning with
  High-Quality Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.03810)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.03810](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03810)

**Authors**: Yejie Wang, Keqing He, Dayuan Fu, Zhuoma Gongque, Heyang Xu, Yanxu Chen, Zhexu Wang, Yujia Fu, Guanting Dong, Muxi Diao, Jingang Wang, Mengdi Zhang, Xunliang Cai, Weiran Xu

**Published**: 2024-09-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-09 by KABI

**Upvotes**: 35

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/banksy23/XCoder)

### Abstract

Recently, there has been a growing interest in studying how to construct
better code instruction tuning data. However, we observe Code models trained
with these datasets exhibit high performance on HumanEval but perform worse on
other benchmarks such as LiveCodeBench. Upon further investigation, we find
that many datasets suffer from severe data leakage. After cleaning up most of
the leaked data, some well-known high-quality datasets perform poorly. This
discovery reveals a new challenge: identifying which dataset genuinely qualify
as high-quality code instruction data. To address this, we propose an efficient
code data pruning strategy for selecting good samples. Our approach is based on
three dimensions: instruction complexity, response quality, and instruction
diversity. Based on our selected data, we present XCoder, a family of models
finetuned from LLaMA3. Our experiments show XCoder achieves new
state-of-the-art performance using fewer training data, which verify the
effectiveness of our data strategy. Moreover, we perform a comprehensive
analysis on the data composition and find existing code datasets have different
characteristics according to their construction methods, which provide new
insights for future code LLMs. Our models and dataset are released in
https://github.com/banksy23/XCoder

---

## 2. [Configurable Foundation Models: Building LLMs from a Modular Perspective](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02877)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02877](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02877)

**Organization**: OpenBMB

**Authors**: Chaojun Xiao, Zhengyan Zhang, Chenyang Song, Dazhi Jiang, Feng Yao, Xu Han, Xiaozhi Wang, Shuo Wang, Yufei Huang, Guanyu Lin, Yingfa Chen, Weilin Zhao, Yuge Tu, Zexuan Zhong, Ao Zhang, Chenglei Si, Khai Hao Moo, Chenyang Zhao, Huimin Chen, Yankai Lin, Zhiyuan Liu, Jingbo Shang, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2024-09-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-09 by Feng Yao

**Upvotes**: 32

### Abstract

Advancements in LLMs have recently unveiled challenges tied to computational
efficiency and continual scalability due to their requirements of huge
parameters, making the applications and evolution of these models on devices
with limited computation resources and scenarios requiring various abilities
increasingly cumbersome. Inspired by modularity within the human brain, there
is a growing tendency to decompose LLMs into numerous functional modules,
allowing for inference with part of modules and dynamic assembly of modules to
tackle complex tasks, such as mixture-of-experts. To highlight the inherent
efficiency and composability of the modular approach, we coin the term brick to
represent each functional module, designating the modularized structure as
configurable foundation models. In this paper, we offer a comprehensive
overview and investigation of the construction, utilization, and limitation of
configurable foundation models. We first formalize modules into emergent bricks
- functional neuron partitions that emerge during the pre-training phase, and
customized bricks - bricks constructed via additional post-training to improve
the capabilities and knowledge of LLMs. Based on diverse functional bricks, we
further present four brick-oriented operations: retrieval and routing, merging,
updating, and growing. These operations allow for dynamic configuration of LLMs
based on instructions to handle complex tasks. To verify our perspective, we
conduct an empirical analysis on widely-used LLMs. We find that the FFN layers
follow modular patterns with functional specialization of neurons and
functional neuron partitions. Finally, we highlight several open issues and
directions for future research. Overall, this paper aims to offer a fresh
modular perspective on existing LLM research and inspire the future creation of
more efficient and scalable foundational models.

---

## 3. [Open-MAGVIT2: An Open-Source Project Toward Democratizing
  Auto-regressive Visual Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.04410)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.04410](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04410)

**Authors**: Zhuoyan Luo, Fengyuan Shi, Yixiao Ge, Yujiu Yang, Limin Wang, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2024-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

We present Open-MAGVIT2, a family of auto-regressive image generation models
ranging from 300M to 1.5B. The Open-MAGVIT2 project produces an open-source
replication of Google's MAGVIT-v2 tokenizer, a tokenizer with a super-large
codebook (i.e., 2^{18} codes), and achieves the state-of-the-art
reconstruction performance (1.17 rFID) on ImageNet 256 times 256.
Furthermore, we explore its application in plain auto-regressive models and
validate scalability properties. To assist auto-regressive models in predicting
with a super-large vocabulary, we factorize it into two sub-vocabulary of
different sizes by asymmetric token factorization, and further introduce "next
sub-token prediction" to enhance sub-token interaction for better generation
quality. We release all models and codes to foster innovation and creativity in
the field of auto-regressive visual generation.

---

## 4. [Qihoo-T2X: An Efficiency-Focused Diffusion Transformer via Proxy Tokens
  for Text-to-Any-Task](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.04005)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.04005](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04005)

**Authors**: Jing Wang, Ao Ma, Jiasong Feng, Dawei Leng, Yuhui Yin, Xiaodan Liang

**Published**: 2024-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/360cvgroup/qihoo-t2x)

### Abstract

The global self-attention mechanism in diffusion transformers involves
redundant computation due to the sparse and redundant nature of visual
information, and the attention map of tokens within a spatial window shows
significant similarity. To address this redundancy, we propose the Proxy Token
Diffusion Transformer (PT-DiT), which employs sparse representative token
attention (where the number of representative tokens is much smaller than the
total number of tokens) to model global visual information efficiently.
Specifically, in each transformer block, we randomly sample one token from each
spatial-temporal window to serve as a proxy token for that region. The global
semantics are captured through the self-attention of these proxy tokens and
then injected into all latent tokens via cross-attention. Simultaneously, we
introduce window and shift window attention to address the limitations in
detail modeling caused by the sparse attention mechanism. Building on the
well-designed PT-DiT, we further develop the Qihoo-T2X family, which includes a
variety of models for T2I, T2V, and T2MV tasks. Experimental results show that
PT-DiT achieves competitive performance while reducing the computational
complexity in both image and video generation tasks (e.g., a 48% reduction
compared to DiT and a 35% reduction compared to Pixart-alpha). Our source code
is available at https://github.com/360CVGroup/Qihoo-T2X.

---

## 5. [GST: Precise 3D Human Body from a Single Image with Gaussian Splatting
  Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.04196)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.04196](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04196)

**Authors**: Lorenza Prospero, Abdullah Hamdi, Joao F. Henriques, Christian Rupprecht

**Published**: 2024-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-09 by Abdullah Hamdi

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/prosperolo/gst) | [Project Page](https://abdullahamdi.com/gst/)

### Abstract

Reconstructing realistic 3D human models from monocular images has
significant applications in creative industries, human-computer interfaces, and
healthcare. We base our work on 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS), a scene
representation composed of a mixture of Gaussians. Predicting such mixtures for
a human from a single input image is challenging, as it is a non-uniform
density (with a many-to-one relationship with input pixels) with strict
physical constraints. At the same time, it needs to be flexible to accommodate
a variety of clothes and poses. Our key observation is that the vertices of
standardized human meshes (such as SMPL) can provide an adequate density and
approximate initial position for Gaussians. We can then train a transformer
model to jointly predict comparatively small adjustments to these positions, as
well as the other Gaussians' attributes and the SMPL parameters. We show
empirically that this combination (using only multi-view supervision) can
achieve fast inference of 3D human models from a single image without test-time
optimization, expensive diffusion models, or 3D points supervision. We also
show that it can improve 3D pose estimation by better fitting human models that
account for clothes and other variations. The code is available on the project
website https://abdullahamdi.com/gst/ .

---

## 6. [Spinning the Golden Thread: Benchmarking Long-Form Generation in
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02076)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02076](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02076)

**Authors**: Yuhao Wu, Ming Shan Hee, Zhiqing Hu, Roy Ka-Wei Lee

**Published**: 2024-09-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-09 by Zhiqiang Hu

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mozhu621/SGT)

### Abstract

The abilities of long-context language models (LMs) are often evaluated using
the "Needle-in-a-Haystack" (NIAH) test, which comprises tasks designed to
assess a model's ability to identify specific information ("needle") within
large text sequences ("haystack"). While these benchmarks measure how well
models understand long-context input sequences, they do not effectively gauge
the quality of long-form text generation--a critical aspect for applications
such as design proposals and creative writing. To address this gap, we have
introduced a new long-form text evaluation benchmark, Spinning the Golden
Thread (SGT), which tests models' ability to identify specific events within
generated long text sequences. In this benchmark, we prompt long-context LMs to
create long-form text that must include particular events or constraints and
evaluate their ability to incorporate these elements. We evaluated ten
long-context LMs across four distinct scenarios, three types of prompt
instructions, and two different generation-length settings (16K and 32K).
Although these models perform well on NIAH benchmarks, none demonstrated
satisfactory performance on the Spinning the Golden Thread, raising concerns
about their ability to generate coherent long-form text that follows
instructions. Additionally, as the length of the generated text increases, all
models exhibit a significant drop in performance.

---
