# Daily Papers - 2024-09-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-10)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [Towards a Unified View of Preference Learning for Large Language Models:
  A Survey](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02795)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02795](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02795)

**Authors**: Bofei Gao, Feifan Song, Yibo Miao, Zefan Cai, Zhe Yang, Liang Chen, Helan Hu, Runxin Xu, Qingxiu Dong, Ce Zheng, Wen Xiao, Ge Zhang, Daoguang Zan, Keming Lu, Bowen Yu, Dayiheng Liu, Zeyu Cui, Jian Yang, Lei Sha, Houfeng Wang, Zhifang Sui, Peiyi Wang, Tianyu Liu, Baobao Chang

**Published**: 2024-09-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by Bofei Gao

**Upvotes**: 72

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kbsdjames/awesome-llm-preference-learning)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit remarkably powerful capabilities. One of
the crucial factors to achieve success is aligning the LLM's output with human
preferences. This alignment process often requires only a small amount of data
to efficiently enhance the LLM's performance. While effective, research in this
area spans multiple domains, and the methods involved are relatively complex to
understand. The relationships between different methods have been
under-explored, limiting the development of the preference alignment. In light
of this, we break down the existing popular alignment strategies into different
components and provide a unified framework to study the current alignment
strategies, thereby establishing connections among them. In this survey, we
decompose all the strategies in preference learning into four components:
model, data, feedback, and algorithm. This unified view offers an in-depth
understanding of existing alignment algorithms and also opens up possibilities
to synergize the strengths of different strategies. Furthermore, we present
detailed working examples of prevalent existing algorithms to facilitate a
comprehensive understanding for the readers. Finally, based on our unified
perspective, we explore the challenges and future research directions for
aligning large language models with human preferences.

---

## 2. [MMEvol: Empowering Multimodal Large Language Models with Evol-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.05840)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.05840](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05840)

**Authors**: Run Luo, Haonan Zhang, Longze Chen, Ting-En Lin, Xiong Liu, Yuchuan Wu, Min Yang, Minzheng Wang, Pengpeng Zeng, Lianli Gao, Heng Tao Shen, Yunshui Li, Xiaobo Xia, Fei Huang, Jingkuan Song, Yongbin Li

**Published**: 2024-09-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by Ting-En Lin

**Upvotes**: 49

### Abstract

The development of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) has seen
significant advancements. However, the quantity and quality of multimodal
instruction data have emerged as significant bottlenecks in their progress.
Manually creating multimodal instruction data is both time-consuming and
inefficient, posing challenges in producing instructions of high complexity.
Moreover, distilling instruction data from black-box commercial models (e.g.,
GPT-4o, GPT-4V) often results in simplistic instruction data, which constrains
performance to that of these models. The challenge of curating diverse and
complex instruction data remains substantial. We propose MMEvol, a novel
multimodal instruction data evolution framework that combines fine-grained
perception evolution, cognitive reasoning evolution, and interaction evolution.
This iterative approach breaks through data quality bottlenecks to generate a
complex and diverse image-text instruction dataset, thereby empowering MLLMs
with enhanced capabilities. Beginning with an initial set of instructions,
SEED-163K, we utilize MMEvol to systematically broadens the diversity of
instruction types, integrates reasoning steps to enhance cognitive
capabilities, and extracts detailed information from images to improve visual
understanding and robustness. To comprehensively evaluate the effectiveness of
our data, we train LLaVA-NeXT using the evolved data and conduct experiments
across 13 vision-language tasks. Compared to the baseline trained with seed
data, our approach achieves an average accuracy improvement of 3.1 points and
reaches state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on 9 of these tasks.

---

## 3. [OneGen: Efficient One-Pass Unified Generation and Retrieval for LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.05152)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.05152](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05152)

**Authors**: Jintian Zhang, Cheng Peng, Mengshu Sun, Xiang Chen, Lei Liang, Zhiqiang Zhang, Jun Zhou, Huajun Chen, Ningyu Zhang

**Published**: 2024-09-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by Ningyu Zhang

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zjunlp/onegen)

### Abstract

Despite the recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs), which have
significantly enhanced the generative capabilities for various NLP tasks, LLMs
still face limitations in directly handling retrieval tasks. However, many
practical applications demand the seamless integration of both retrieval and
generation. This paper introduces a novel and efficient One-pass Generation and
retrieval framework (OneGen), designed to improve LLMs' performance on tasks
that require both generation and retrieval. The proposed framework bridges the
traditionally separate training approaches for generation and retrieval by
incorporating retrieval tokens generated autoregressively. This enables a
single LLM to handle both tasks simultaneously in a unified forward pass. We
conduct experiments on two distinct types of composite tasks, RAG and Entity
Linking, to validate the pluggability, effectiveness, and efficiency of OneGen
in training and inference. Furthermore, our results show that integrating
generation and retrieval within the same context preserves the generative
capabilities of LLMs while improving retrieval performance. To the best of our
knowledge, OneGen is the first to enable LLMs to conduct vector retrieval
during the generation.

---

## 4. [MemoRAG: Moving towards Next-Gen RAG Via Memory-Inspired Knowledge
  Discovery](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.05591)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.05591](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05591)

**Authors**: Hongjin Qian, Peitian Zhang, Zheng Liu, Kelong Mao, Zhicheng Dou

**Published**: 2024-09-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by zhengliu

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/qhjqhj00/memorag)

### Abstract

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) leverages retrieval tools to access
external databases, thereby enhancing the generation quality of large language
models (LLMs) through optimized context. However, the existing retrieval
methods are constrained inherently, as they can only perform relevance matching
between explicitly stated queries and well-formed knowledge, but unable to
handle tasks involving ambiguous information needs or unstructured knowledge.
Consequently, existing RAG systems are primarily effective for straightforward
question-answering tasks. In this work, we propose MemoRAG, a novel
retrieval-augmented generation paradigm empowered by long-term memory. MemoRAG
adopts a dual-system architecture. On the one hand, it employs a light
but long-range LLM to form the global memory of database. Once a task is
presented, it generates draft answers, cluing the retrieval tools to locate
useful information within the database. On the other hand, it leverages an
expensive but expressive LLM, which generates the ultimate answer
based on the retrieved information. Building on this general framework, we
further optimize MemoRAG's performance by enhancing its cluing mechanism and
memorization capacity. In our experiment, MemoRAG achieves superior performance
across a variety of evaluation tasks, including both complex ones where
conventional RAG fails and straightforward ones where RAG is commonly applied.

---

## 5. [Paper Copilot: A Self-Evolving and Efficient LLM System for Personalized
  Academic Assistance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.04593)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.04593](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04593)

**Authors**: Guanyu Lin, Tao Feng, Pengrui Han, Ge Liu, Jiaxuan You

**Published**: 2024-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by JB D.

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

As scientific research proliferates, researchers face the daunting task of
navigating and reading vast amounts of literature. Existing solutions, such as
document QA, fail to provide personalized and up-to-date information
efficiently. We present Paper Copilot, a self-evolving, efficient LLM system
designed to assist researchers, based on thought-retrieval, user profile and
high performance optimization. Specifically, Paper Copilot can offer
personalized research services, maintaining a real-time updated database.
Quantitative evaluation demonstrates that Paper Copilot saves 69.92\% of time
after efficient deployment. This paper details the design and implementation of
Paper Copilot, highlighting its contributions to personalized academic support
and its potential to streamline the research process.

---

## 6. [POINTS: Improving Your Vision-language Model with Affordable Strategies](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.04828)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.04828](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04828)

**Authors**: Yuan Liu, Zhongyin Zhao, Ziyuan Zhuang, Le Tian, Xiao Zhou, Jie Zhou

**Published**: 2024-09-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by Yuan Liu

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

In recent years, vision-language models have made significant strides,
excelling in tasks like optical character recognition and geometric
problem-solving. However, several critical issues remain: 1) Proprietary models
often lack transparency about their architectures, while open-source models
need more detailed ablations of their training strategies. 2) Pre-training data
in open-source works is under-explored, with datasets added empirically, making
the process cumbersome. 3) Fine-tuning often focuses on adding datasets,
leading to diminishing returns. To address these issues, we propose the
following contributions: 1) We trained a robust baseline model using the latest
advancements in vision-language models, introducing effective improvements and
conducting comprehensive ablation and validation for each technique. 2)
Inspired by recent work on large language models, we filtered pre-training data
using perplexity, selecting the lowest perplexity data for training. This
approach allowed us to train on a curated 1M dataset, achieving competitive
performance. 3) During visual instruction tuning, we used model soup on
different datasets when adding more datasets yielded marginal improvements.
These innovations resulted in a 9B parameter model that performs competitively
with state-of-the-art models. Our strategies are efficient and lightweight,
making them easily adoptable by the community.

---

## 7. [Robot Utility Models: General Policies for Zero-Shot Deployment in New
  Environments](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.05865)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.05865](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05865)

**Authors**: Haritheja Etukuru, Norihito Naka, Zijin Hu, Seungjae Lee, Julian Mehu, Aaron Edsinger, Chris Paxton, Soumith Chintala, Lerrel Pinto, Nur Muhammad Mahi Shafiullah

**Published**: 2024-09-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by Mahi Shafiullah

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/haritheja-e/robot-utility-models)

### Abstract

Robot models, particularly those trained with large amounts of data, have
recently shown a plethora of real-world manipulation and navigation
capabilities. Several independent efforts have shown that given sufficient
training data in an environment, robot policies can generalize to demonstrated
variations in that environment. However, needing to finetune robot models to
every new environment stands in stark contrast to models in language or vision
that can be deployed zero-shot for open-world problems. In this work, we
present Robot Utility Models (RUMs), a framework for training and deploying
zero-shot robot policies that can directly generalize to new environments
without any finetuning. To create RUMs efficiently, we develop new tools to
quickly collect data for mobile manipulation tasks, integrate such data into a
policy with multi-modal imitation learning, and deploy policies on-device on
Hello Robot Stretch, a cheap commodity robot, with an external mLLM verifier
for retrying. We train five such utility models for opening cabinet doors,
opening drawers, picking up napkins, picking up paper bags, and reorienting
fallen objects. Our system, on average, achieves 90% success rate in unseen,
novel environments interacting with unseen objects. Moreover, the utility
models can also succeed in different robot and camera set-ups with no further
data, training, or fine-tuning. Primary among our lessons are the importance of
training data over training algorithm and policy class, guidance about data
scaling, necessity for diverse yet high-quality demonstrations, and a recipe
for robot introspection and retrying to improve performance on individual
environments. Our code, data, models, hardware designs, as well as our
experiment and deployment videos are open sourced and can be found on our
project website: https://robotutilitymodels.com

---

## 8. [Benchmarking Chinese Knowledge Rectification in Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.05806)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.05806](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05806)

**Authors**: Tianhe Lu, Jizhan Fang, Xin Xu, Ningyu Zhang, Huajun Chen

**Published**: 2024-09-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by Ningyu Zhang

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

While Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit remarkable generative
capabilities, they are not without flaws, particularly in the form of
hallucinations. This issue is even more pronounced when LLMs are applied to
specific languages and domains. For example, LLMs may generate nonsense
information when handling Chinese ancient poetry, proverbs, or idioms, owing to
the lack of specific knowledge. To this end, this paper introduces a benchmark
for rectifying Chinese knowledge in LLMs via knowledge editing. Specifically,
we introduce a new Chinese dataset, CKnowEdit, by collecting seven type of
knowledge from various sources, including classical texts, idioms, and content
from Baidu Tieba Ruozhiba, thereby accounting for the unique polyphony,
antithesis, and logical constructs inherent in the Chinese language. Through
the analysis of this dataset, we uncover the challenges faced by current LLMs
in mastering Chinese. Furthermore, our evaluation of state-of-the-art knowledge
editing techniques on this dataset unveil the substantial scope for advancement
in the rectification of Chinese knowledge. Code and dataset are available at
https://github.com/zjunlp/EasyEdit.

---

## 9. [Evaluating Multiview Object Consistency in Humans and Image Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.05862)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.05862](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05862)

**Authors**: Tyler Bonnen, Stephanie Fu, Yutong Bai, Thomas O'Connell, Yoni Friedman, Nancy Kanwisher, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, Alexei A. Efros

**Published**: 2024-09-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by JB D.

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tzler/mochi_code)

### Abstract

We introduce a benchmark to directly evaluate the alignment between human
observers and vision models on a 3D shape inference task. We leverage an
experimental design from the cognitive sciences which requires zero-shot visual
inferences about object shape: given a set of images, participants identify
which contain the same/different objects, despite considerable viewpoint
variation. We draw from a diverse range of images that include common objects
(e.g., chairs) as well as abstract shapes (i.e., procedurally generated
`nonsense' objects). After constructing over 2000 unique image sets, we
administer these tasks to human participants, collecting 35K trials of
behavioral data from over 500 participants. This includes explicit choice
behaviors as well as intermediate measures, such as reaction time and gaze
data. We then evaluate the performance of common vision models (e.g., DINOv2,
MAE, CLIP). We find that humans outperform all models by a wide margin. Using a
multi-scale evaluation approach, we identify underlying similarities and
differences between models and humans: while human-model performance is
correlated, humans allocate more time/processing on challenging trials. All
images, data, and code can be accessed via our project page.

---

## 10. [Open Language Data Initiative: Advancing Low-Resource Machine
  Translation for Karakalpak](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.04269)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.04269](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04269)

**Authors**: Mukhammadsaid Mamasaidov, Abror Shopulatov

**Published**: 2024-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by JB D.

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

This study presents several contributions for the Karakalpak language: a
FLORES+ devtest dataset translated to Karakalpak, parallel corpora for
Uzbek-Karakalpak, Russian-Karakalpak and English-Karakalpak of 100,000 pairs
each and open-sourced fine-tuned neural models for translation across these
languages. Our experiments compare different model variants and training
approaches, demonstrating improvements over existing baselines. This work,
conducted as part of the Open Language Data Initiative (OLDI) shared task, aims
to advance machine translation capabilities for Karakalpak and contribute to
expanding linguistic diversity in NLP technologies.

---

## 11. [UniDet3D: Multi-dataset Indoor 3D Object Detection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.04234)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.04234](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04234)

**Authors**: Maksim Kolodiazhnyi, Anna Vorontsova, Matvey Skripkin, Danila Rukhovich, Anton Konushin

**Published**: 2024-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by JB D.

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/filapro/unidet3d)

### Abstract

Growing customer demand for smart solutions in robotics and augmented reality
has attracted considerable attention to 3D object detection from point clouds.
Yet, existing indoor datasets taken individually are too small and
insufficiently diverse to train a powerful and general 3D object detection
model. In the meantime, more general approaches utilizing foundation models are
still inferior in quality to those based on supervised training for a specific
task. In this work, we propose , a simple yet effective 3D object
detection model, which is trained on a mixture of indoor datasets and is
capable of working in various indoor environments. By unifying different label
spaces,  enables learning a strong representation across multiple
datasets through a supervised joint training scheme. The proposed network
architecture is built upon a vanilla transformer encoder, making it easy to
run, customize and extend the prediction pipeline for practical use. Extensive
experiments demonstrate that  obtains significant gains over existing 3D
object detection methods in 6 indoor benchmarks: ScanNet (+1.1 mAP50),
ARKitScenes (+19.4 mAP25), S3DIS (+9.1 mAP50), MultiScan (+9.3 mAP50), 3RScan
(+3.2 mAP50), and ScanNet++ (+2.7 mAP50). Code is available at
https://github.com/filapro/unidet3d .

---

## 12. [Insights from Benchmarking Frontier Language Models on Web App Code
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.05177)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.05177](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05177)

**Authors**: Yi Cui

**Published**: 2024-09-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-10 by JB D.

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

This paper presents insights from evaluating 16 frontier large language
models (LLMs) on the WebApp1K benchmark, a test suite designed to assess the
ability of LLMs to generate web application code. The results reveal that while
all models possess similar underlying knowledge, their performance is
differentiated by the frequency of mistakes they make. By analyzing lines of
code (LOC) and failure distributions, we find that writing correct code is more
complex than generating incorrect code. Furthermore, prompt engineering shows
limited efficacy in reducing errors beyond specific cases. These findings
suggest that further advancements in coding LLM should emphasize on model
reliability and mistake minimization.

---
