# Daily Papers - 2024-09-04

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-04)

Total papers: 19

---

## 1. [General OCR Theory: Towards OCR-2.0 via a Unified End-to-end Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.01704)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.01704](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01704)

**Authors**: Haoran Wei, Chenglong Liu, Jinyue Chen, Jia Wang, Lingyu Kong, Yanming Xu, Zheng Ge, Liang Zhao, Jianjian Sun, Yuang Peng, Chunrui Han, Xiangyu Zhang

**Published**: 2024-09-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by Haoran Wei

**Upvotes**: 83

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ucas-haoranwei/got-ocr2.0)

### Abstract

Traditional OCR systems (OCR-1.0) are increasingly unable to meet people's
usage due to the growing demand for intelligent processing of man-made optical
characters. In this paper, we collectively refer to all artificial optical
signals (e.g., plain texts, math/molecular formulas, tables, charts, sheet
music, and even geometric shapes) as "characters" and propose the General OCR
Theory along with an excellent model, namely GOT, to promote the arrival of
OCR-2.0. The GOT, with 580M parameters, is a unified, elegant, and end-to-end
model, consisting of a high-compression encoder and a long-contexts decoder. As
an OCR-2.0 model, GOT can handle all the above "characters" under various OCR
tasks. On the input side, the model supports commonly used scene- and
document-style images in slice and whole-page styles. On the output side, GOT
can generate plain or formatted results (markdown/tikz/smiles/kern) via an easy
prompt. Besides, the model enjoys interactive OCR features, i.e., region-level
recognition guided by coordinates or colors. Furthermore, we also adapt dynamic
resolution and multi-page OCR technologies to GOT for better practicality. In
experiments, we provide sufficient results to prove the superiority of our
model.

---

## 2. [OLMoE: Open Mixture-of-Experts Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02060)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02060](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02060)

**Authors**: Niklas Muennighoff, Luca Soldaini, Dirk Groeneveld, Kyle Lo, Jacob Morrison, Sewon Min, Weijia Shi, Pete Walsh, Oyvind Tafjord, Nathan Lambert, Yuling Gu, Shane Arora, Akshita Bhagia, Dustin Schwenk, David Wadden, Alexander Wettig, Binyuan Hui, Tim Dettmers, Douwe Kiela, Ali Farhadi, Noah A. Smith, Pang Wei Koh, Amanpreet Singh, Hannaneh Hajishirzi

**Published**: 2024-09-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by Niklas Muennighoff

**Upvotes**: 80

### Abstract

We introduce OLMoE, a fully open, state-of-the-art language model leveraging
sparse Mixture-of-Experts (MoE). OLMoE-1B-7B has 7 billion (B) parameters but
uses only 1B per input token. We pretrain it on 5 trillion tokens and further
adapt it to create OLMoE-1B-7B-Instruct. Our models outperform all available
models with similar active parameters, even surpassing larger ones like
Llama2-13B-Chat and DeepSeekMoE-16B. We present various experiments on MoE
training, analyze routing in our model showing high specialization, and
open-source all aspects of our work: model weights, training data, code, and
logs.

---

## 3. [Kvasir-VQA: A Text-Image Pair GI Tract Dataset](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.01437)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.01437](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01437)

**Authors**: Sushant Gautam, Andrea Storås, Cise Midoglu, Steven A. Hicks, Vajira Thambawita, Pål Halvorsen, Michael A. Riegler

**Published**: 2024-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by Sushant Gautam

**Upvotes**: 71

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/simula/Kvasir-VQA)

### Abstract

We introduce Kvasir-VQA, an extended dataset derived from the HyperKvasir and
Kvasir-Instrument datasets, augmented with question-and-answer annotations to
facilitate advanced machine learning tasks in Gastrointestinal (GI)
diagnostics. This dataset comprises 6,500 annotated images spanning various GI
tract conditions and surgical instruments, and it supports multiple question
types including yes/no, choice, location, and numerical count. The dataset is
intended for applications such as image captioning, Visual Question Answering
(VQA), text-based generation of synthetic medical images, object detection, and
classification. Our experiments demonstrate the dataset's effectiveness in
training models for three selected tasks, showcasing significant applications
in medical image analysis and diagnostics. We also present evaluation metrics
for each task, highlighting the usability and versatility of our dataset. The
dataset and supporting artifacts are available at
https://datasets.simula.no/kvasir-vqa.

---

## 4. [LongRecipe: Recipe for Efficient Long Context Generalization in Large
  Languge Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.00509)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.00509](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00509)

**Authors**: Zhiyuan Hu, Yuliang Liu, Jinman Zhao, Suyuchen Wang, Yan Wang, Wei Shen, Qing Gu, Anh Tuan Luu, See-Kiong Ng, Zhiwei Jiang, Bryan Hooi

**Published**: 2024-08-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by Suyuchen Wang

**Upvotes**: 42

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zhiyuanhubj/LongRecipe)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) face significant challenges in handling
long-context tasks because of their limited effective context window size
during pretraining, which restricts their ability to generalize over extended
sequences. Meanwhile, extending the context window in LLMs through
post-pretraining is highly resource-intensive. To address this, we introduce
**LongRecipe**, an efficient training strategy for extending the context window
of LLMs, including impactful token analysis, position index transformation, and
training optimization strategies. It simulates long-sequence inputs while
maintaining training efficiency and significantly improves the model's
understanding of long-range dependencies. Experiments on three types of LLMs
show that LongRecipe can utilize long sequences while requiring only 30% of the
target context window size, and reduces computational training resource over
85% compared to full sequence training. Furthermore, LongRecipe also preserves
the original LLM's capabilities in general tasks. Ultimately, *we can extend
the effective context window of open-source LLMs from 8k to 128k, achieving
performance close to GPT-4 with just one day of dedicated training using a
single GPU with 80G memory.* Our code is released at the
[link](https://github.com/zhiyuanhubj/LongRecipe).

---

## 5. [DepthCrafter: Generating Consistent Long Depth Sequences for Open-world
  Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02095)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02095](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02095)

**Authors**: Wenbo Hu, Xiangjun Gao, Xiaoyu Li, Sijie Zhao, Xiaodong Cun, Yong Zhang, Long Quan, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2024-09-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 37

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Tencent/DepthCrafter)

### Abstract

Despite significant advancements in monocular depth estimation for static
images, estimating video depth in the open world remains challenging, since
open-world videos are extremely diverse in content, motion, camera movement,
and length. We present DepthCrafter, an innovative method for generating
temporally consistent long depth sequences with intricate details for
open-world videos, without requiring any supplementary information such as
camera poses or optical flow. DepthCrafter achieves generalization ability to
open-world videos by training a video-to-depth model from a pre-trained
image-to-video diffusion model, through our meticulously designed three-stage
training strategy with the compiled paired video-depth datasets. Our training
approach enables the model to generate depth sequences with variable lengths at
one time, up to 110 frames, and harvest both precise depth details and rich
content diversity from realistic and synthetic datasets. We also propose an
inference strategy that processes extremely long videos through segment-wise
estimation and seamless stitching. Comprehensive evaluations on multiple
datasets reveal that DepthCrafter achieves state-of-the-art performance in
open-world video depth estimation under zero-shot settings. Furthermore,
DepthCrafter facilitates various downstream applications, including depth-based
visual effects and conditional video generation.

---

## 6. [LinFusion: 1 GPU, 1 Minute, 16K Image](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.02097)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.02097](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02097)

**Authors**: Songhua Liu, Weihao Yu, Zhenxiong Tan, Xinchao Wang

**Published**: 2024-09-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by Liu Songhua

**Upvotes**: 34

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Huage001/LinFusion)

### Abstract

Modern diffusion models, particularly those utilizing a Transformer-based
UNet for denoising, rely heavily on self-attention operations to manage complex
spatial relationships, thus achieving impressive generation performance.
However, this existing paradigm faces significant challenges in generating
high-resolution visual content due to its quadratic time and memory complexity
with respect to the number of spatial tokens. To address this limitation, we
aim at a novel linear attention mechanism as an alternative in this paper.
Specifically, we begin our exploration from recently introduced models with
linear complexity, e.g., Mamba, Mamba2, and Gated Linear Attention, and
identify two key features-attention normalization and non-causal inference-that
enhance high-resolution visual generation performance. Building on these
insights, we introduce a generalized linear attention paradigm, which serves as
a low-rank approximation of a wide spectrum of popular linear token mixers. To
save the training cost and better leverage pre-trained models, we initialize
our models and distill the knowledge from pre-trained StableDiffusion (SD). We
find that the distilled model, termed LinFusion, achieves performance on par
with or superior to the original SD after only modest training, while
significantly reducing time and memory complexity. Extensive experiments on
SD-v1.5, SD-v2.1, and SD-XL demonstrate that LinFusion delivers satisfactory
zero-shot cross-resolution generation performance, generating high-resolution
images like 16K resolution. Moreover, it is highly compatible with pre-trained
SD components, such as ControlNet and IP-Adapter, requiring no adaptation
efforts. Codes are available at https://github.com/Huage001/LinFusion.

---

## 7. [FLUX that Plays Music](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.00587)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.00587](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00587)

**Authors**: Zhengcong Fei, Mingyuan Fan, Changqian Yu, Junshi Huang

**Published**: 2024-09-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/feizc/fluxmusic)

### Abstract

This paper explores a simple extension of diffusion-based rectified flow
Transformers for text-to-music generation, termed as FluxMusic. Generally,
along with design in advanced
Fluxhttps://github.com/black-forest-labs/flux model, we transfers it
into a latent VAE space of mel-spectrum. It involves first applying a sequence
of independent attention to the double text-music stream, followed by a stacked
single music stream for denoised patch prediction. We employ multiple
pre-trained text encoders to sufficiently capture caption semantic information
as well as inference flexibility. In between, coarse textual information, in
conjunction with time step embeddings, is utilized in a modulation mechanism,
while fine-grained textual details are concatenated with the music patch
sequence as inputs. Through an in-depth study, we demonstrate that rectified
flow training with an optimized architecture significantly outperforms
established diffusion methods for the text-to-music task, as evidenced by
various automatic metrics and human preference evaluations. Our experimental
data, code, and model weights are made publicly available at:
https://github.com/feizc/FluxMusic.

---

## 8. [VideoLLaMB: Long-context Video Understanding with Recurrent Memory
  Bridges](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.01071)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.01071](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01071)

**Authors**: Yuxuan Wang, Cihang Xie, Yang Liu, Zilong Zheng

**Published**: 2024-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by Zilong Zheng

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

Recent advancements in large-scale video-language models have shown
significant potential for real-time planning and detailed interactions.
However, their high computational demands and the scarcity of annotated
datasets limit their practicality for academic researchers. In this work, we
introduce VideoLLaMB, a novel framework that utilizes temporal memory tokens
within bridge layers to allow for the encoding of entire video sequences
alongside historical visual data, effectively preserving semantic continuity
and enhancing model performance across various tasks. This approach includes
recurrent memory tokens and a SceneTilling algorithm, which segments videos
into independent semantic units to preserve semantic integrity. Empirically,
VideoLLaMB significantly outstrips existing video-language models,
demonstrating a 5.5 points improvement over its competitors across three
VideoQA benchmarks, and 2.06 points on egocentric planning. Comprehensive
results on the MVBench show that VideoLLaMB-7B achieves markedly better results
than previous 7B models of same LLM. Remarkably, it maintains robust
performance as PLLaVA even as video length increases up to 8 times. Besides,
the frame retrieval results on our specialized Needle in a Video Haystack
(NIAVH) benchmark, further validate VideoLLaMB's prowess in accurately
identifying specific frames within lengthy videos. Our SceneTilling algorithm
also enables the generation of streaming video captions directly, without
necessitating additional training. In terms of efficiency, VideoLLaMB, trained
on 16 frames, supports up to 320 frames on a single Nvidia A100 GPU with linear
GPU memory scaling, ensuring both high performance and cost-effectiveness,
thereby setting a new foundation for long-form video-language models in both
academic and practical applications.

---

## 9. [Diffusion Policy Policy Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.00588)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.00588](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00588)

**Authors**: Allen Z. Ren, Justin Lidard, Lars L. Ankile, Anthony Simeonov, Pulkit Agrawal, Anirudha Majumdar, Benjamin Burchfiel, Hongkai Dai, Max Simchowitz

**Published**: 2024-09-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/irom-princeton/dppo)

### Abstract

We introduce Diffusion Policy Policy Optimization, DPPO, an algorithmic
framework including best practices for fine-tuning diffusion-based policies
(e.g. Diffusion Policy) in continuous control and robot learning tasks using
the policy gradient (PG) method from reinforcement learning (RL). PG methods
are ubiquitous in training RL policies with other policy parameterizations;
nevertheless, they had been conjectured to be less efficient for
diffusion-based policies. Surprisingly, we show that DPPO achieves the
strongest overall performance and efficiency for fine-tuning in common
benchmarks compared to other RL methods for diffusion-based policies and also
compared to PG fine-tuning of other policy parameterizations. Through
experimental investigation, we find that DPPO takes advantage of unique
synergies between RL fine-tuning and the diffusion parameterization, leading to
structured and on-manifold exploration, stable training, and strong policy
robustness. We further demonstrate the strengths of DPPO in a range of
realistic settings, including simulated robotic tasks with pixel observations,
and via zero-shot deployment of simulation-trained policies on robot hardware
in a long-horizon, multi-stage manipulation task. Website with code:
diffusion-ppo.github.io

---

## 10. [Compositional 3D-aware Video Generation with LLM Director](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.00558)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.00558](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00558)

**Authors**: Hanxin Zhu, Tianyu He, Anni Tang, Junliang Guo, Zhibo Chen, Jiang Bian

**Published**: 2024-08-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Significant progress has been made in text-to-video generation through the
use of powerful generative models and large-scale internet data. However,
substantial challenges remain in precisely controlling individual concepts
within the generated video, such as the motion and appearance of specific
characters and the movement of viewpoints. In this work, we propose a novel
paradigm that generates each concept in 3D representation separately and then
composes them with priors from Large Language Models (LLM) and 2D diffusion
models. Specifically, given an input textual prompt, our scheme consists of
three stages: 1) We leverage LLM as the director to first decompose the complex
query into several sub-prompts that indicate individual concepts within the
video~(e.g., scene, objects, motions), then we let LLM to invoke
pre-trained expert models to obtain corresponding 3D representations of
concepts. 2) To compose these representations, we prompt multi-modal LLM to
produce coarse guidance on the scales and coordinates of trajectories for the
objects. 3) To make the generated frames adhere to natural image distribution,
we further leverage 2D diffusion priors and use Score Distillation Sampling to
refine the composition. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method can
generate high-fidelity videos from text with diverse motion and flexible
control over each concept. Project page: https://aka.ms/c3v.

---

## 11. [OD-VAE: An Omni-dimensional Video Compressor for Improving Latent Video
  Diffusion Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.01199)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.01199](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01199)

**Authors**: Liuhan Chen, Zongjian Li, Bin Lin, Bin Zhu, Qian Wang, Shenghai Yuan, Xing Zhou, Xinghua Cheng, Li Yuan

**Published**: 2024-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Variational Autoencoder (VAE), compressing videos into latent
representations, is a crucial preceding component of Latent Video Diffusion
Models (LVDMs). With the same reconstruction quality, the more sufficient the
VAE's compression for videos is, the more efficient the LVDMs are. However,
most LVDMs utilize 2D image VAE, whose compression for videos is only in the
spatial dimension and often ignored in the temporal dimension. How to conduct
temporal compression for videos in a VAE to obtain more concise latent
representations while promising accurate reconstruction is seldom explored. To
fill this gap, we propose an omni-dimension compression VAE, named OD-VAE,
which can temporally and spatially compress videos. Although OD-VAE's more
sufficient compression brings a great challenge to video reconstruction, it can
still achieve high reconstructed accuracy by our fine design. To obtain a
better trade-off between video reconstruction quality and compression speed,
four variants of OD-VAE are introduced and analyzed. In addition, a novel tail
initialization is designed to train OD-VAE more efficiently, and a novel
inference strategy is proposed to enable OD-VAE to handle videos of arbitrary
length with limited GPU memory. Comprehensive experiments on video
reconstruction and LVDM-based video generation demonstrate the effectiveness
and efficiency of our proposed methods.

---

## 12. [ContextCite: Attributing Model Generation to Context](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.00729)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.00729](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00729)

**Authors**: Benjamin Cohen-Wang, Harshay Shah, Kristian Georgiev, Aleksander Madry

**Published**: 2024-09-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/madrylab/context-cite)

### Abstract

How do language models use information provided as context when generating a
response? Can we infer whether a particular generated statement is actually
grounded in the context, a misinterpretation, or fabricated? To help answer
these questions, we introduce the problem of context attribution: pinpointing
the parts of the context (if any) that led a model to generate a particular
statement. We then present ContextCite, a simple and scalable method for
context attribution that can be applied on top of any existing language model.
Finally, we showcase the utility of ContextCite through three applications: (1)
helping verify generated statements (2) improving response quality by pruning
the context and (3) detecting poisoning attacks. We provide code for
ContextCite at https://github.com/MadryLab/context-cite.

---

## 13. [Accurate Compression of Text-to-Image Diffusion Models via Vector
  Quantization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.00492)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.00492](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00492)

**Authors**: Vage Egiazarian, Denis Kuznedelev, Anton Voronov, Ruslan Svirschevski, Michael Goin, Daniil Pavlov, Dan Alistarh, Dmitry Baranchuk

**Published**: 2024-08-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Text-to-image diffusion models have emerged as a powerful framework for
high-quality image generation given textual prompts. Their success has driven
the rapid development of production-grade diffusion models that consistently
increase in size and already contain billions of parameters. As a result,
state-of-the-art text-to-image models are becoming less accessible in practice,
especially in resource-limited environments. Post-training quantization (PTQ)
tackles this issue by compressing the pretrained model weights into lower-bit
representations. Recent diffusion quantization techniques primarily rely on
uniform scalar quantization, providing decent performance for the models
compressed to 4 bits. This work demonstrates that more versatile vector
quantization (VQ) may achieve higher compression rates for large-scale
text-to-image diffusion models. Specifically, we tailor vector-based PTQ
methods to recent billion-scale text-to-image models (SDXL and SDXL-Turbo), and
show that the diffusion models of 2B+ parameters compressed to around 3 bits
using VQ exhibit the similar image quality and textual alignment as previous
4-bit compression techniques.

---

## 14. [GenAgent: Build Collaborative AI Systems with Automated Workflow
  Generation -- Case Studies on ComfyUI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.01392)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.01392](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01392)

**Authors**: Xiangyuan Xue, Zeyu Lu, Di Huang, Wanli Ouyang, Lei Bai

**Published**: 2024-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by LuZeyu

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xxyQwQ/ComfyBench)

### Abstract

Much previous AI research has focused on developing monolithic models to
maximize their intelligence and capability, with the primary goal of enhancing
performance on specific tasks. In contrast, this paper explores an alternative
approach: collaborative AI systems that use workflows to integrate models, data
sources, and pipelines to solve complex and diverse tasks. We introduce
GenAgent, an LLM-based framework that automatically generates complex
workflows, offering greater flexibility and scalability compared to monolithic
models. The core innovation of GenAgent lies in representing workflows with
code, alongside constructing workflows with collaborative agents in a
step-by-step manner. We implement GenAgent on the ComfyUI platform and propose
a new benchmark, OpenComfy. The results demonstrate that GenAgent outperforms
baseline approaches in both run-level and task-level evaluations, showing its
capability to generate complex workflows with superior effectiveness and
stability.

---

## 15. [Follow-Your-Canvas: Higher-Resolution Video Outpainting with Extensive
  Content Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.01055)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.01055](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01055)

**Authors**: Qihua Chen, Yue Ma, Hongfa Wang, Junkun Yuan, Wenzhe Zhao, Qi Tian, Hongmei Wang, Shaobo Min, Qifeng Chen, Wei Liu

**Published**: 2024-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mayuelala/FollowYourCanvas)

### Abstract

This paper explores higher-resolution video outpainting with extensive
content generation. We point out common issues faced by existing methods when
attempting to largely outpaint videos: the generation of low-quality content
and limitations imposed by GPU memory. To address these challenges, we propose
a diffusion-based method called Follow-Your-Canvas. It builds upon two
core designs. First, instead of employing the common practice of "single-shot"
outpainting, we distribute the task across spatial windows and seamlessly merge
them. It allows us to outpaint videos of any size and resolution without being
constrained by GPU memory. Second, the source video and its relative positional
relation are injected into the generation process of each window. It makes the
generated spatial layout within each window harmonize with the source video.
Coupling with these two designs enables us to generate higher-resolution
outpainting videos with rich content while keeping spatial and temporal
consistency. Follow-Your-Canvas excels in large-scale video outpainting, e.g.,
from 512X512 to 1152X2048 (9X), while producing high-quality and aesthetically
pleasing results. It achieves the best quantitative results across various
resolution and scale setups. The code is released on
https://github.com/mayuelala/FollowYourCanvas

---

## 16. [Density Adaptive Attention-based Speech Network: Enhancing Feature
  Understanding for Mental Health Disorders](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.00391)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.00391](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00391)

**Authors**: Georgios Ioannides, Adrian Kieback, Aman Chadha, Aaron Elkins

**Published**: 2024-08-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by Aman Chadha

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Speech-based depression detection poses significant challenges for automated
detection due to its unique manifestation across individuals and data scarcity.
Addressing these challenges, we introduce DAAMAudioCNNLSTM and
DAAMAudioTransformer, two parameter efficient and explainable models for audio
feature extraction and depression detection. DAAMAudioCNNLSTM features a novel
CNN-LSTM framework with multi-head Density Adaptive Attention Mechanism (DAAM),
focusing dynamically on informative speech segments. DAAMAudioTransformer,
leveraging a transformer encoder in place of the CNN-LSTM architecture,
incorporates the same DAAM module for enhanced attention and interpretability.
These approaches not only enhance detection robustness and interpretability but
also achieve state-of-the-art performance: DAAMAudioCNNLSTM with an F1 macro
score of 0.702 and DAAMAudioTransformer with an F1 macro score of 0.72 on the
DAIC-WOZ dataset, without reliance on supplementary information such as vowel
positions and speaker information during training/validation as in previous
approaches. Both models' significant explainability and efficiency in
leveraging speech signals for depression detection represent a leap towards
more reliable, clinically useful diagnostic tools, promising advancements in
speech and mental health care. To foster further research in this domain, we
make our code publicly available.

---

## 17. [Know When to Fuse: Investigating Non-English Hybrid Retrieval in the
  Legal Domain](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.01357)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.01357](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01357)

**Authors**: Antoine Louis, Gijs van Dijck, Gerasimos Spanakis

**Published**: 2024-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by Antoine Louis

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/maastrichtlawtech/fusion)

### Abstract

Hybrid search has emerged as an effective strategy to offset the limitations
of different matching paradigms, especially in out-of-domain contexts where
notable improvements in retrieval quality have been observed. However, existing
research predominantly focuses on a limited set of retrieval methods, evaluated
in pairs on domain-general datasets exclusively in English. In this work, we
study the efficacy of hybrid search across a variety of prominent retrieval
models within the unexplored field of law in the French language, assessing
both zero-shot and in-domain scenarios. Our findings reveal that in a zero-shot
context, fusing different domain-general models consistently enhances
performance compared to using a standalone model, regardless of the fusion
method. Surprisingly, when models are trained in-domain, we find that fusion
generally diminishes performance relative to using the best single system,
unless fusing scores with carefully tuned weights. These novel insights, among
others, expand the applicability of prior findings across a new field and
language, and contribute to a deeper understanding of hybrid search in
non-English specialized domains.

---

## 18. [The MERIT Dataset: Modelling and Efficiently Rendering Interpretable
  Transcripts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.00447)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.00447](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00447)

**Organization**: CICLAB Comillas ICAI

**Authors**: I. de Rodrigo, A. Sanchez-Cuadrado, J. Boal, A. J. Lopez-Lopez

**Published**: 2024-08-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by de Rodrigo

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nachoDRT/MERIT-Dataset)

### Abstract

This paper introduces the MERIT Dataset, a multimodal (text + image + layout)
fully labeled dataset within the context of school reports. Comprising over 400
labels and 33k samples, the MERIT Dataset is a valuable resource for training
models in demanding Visually-rich Document Understanding (VrDU) tasks. By its
nature (student grade reports), the MERIT Dataset can potentially include
biases in a controlled way, making it a valuable tool to benchmark biases
induced in Language Models (LLMs). The paper outlines the dataset's generation
pipeline and highlights its main features in the textual, visual, layout, and
bias domains. To demonstrate the dataset's utility, we present a benchmark with
token classification models, showing that the dataset poses a significant
challenge even for SOTA models and that these would greatly benefit from
including samples from the MERIT Dataset in their pretraining phase.

---

## 19. [PrivacyLens: Evaluating Privacy Norm Awareness of Language Models in
  Action](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.00138)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.00138](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00138)

**Authors**: Yijia Shao, Tianshi Li, Weiyan Shi, Yanchen Liu, Diyi Yang

**Published**: 2024-08-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-04 by Yijia Shao

**Upvotes**: 1

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/salt-nlp/privacylens) | [Project Page](https://salt-nlp.github.io/PrivacyLens)

### Abstract

As language models (LMs) are widely utilized in personalized communication
scenarios (e.g., sending emails, writing social media posts) and endowed with a
certain level of agency, ensuring they act in accordance with the contextual
privacy norms becomes increasingly critical. However, quantifying the privacy
norm awareness of LMs and the emerging privacy risk in LM-mediated
communication is challenging due to (1) the contextual and long-tailed nature
of privacy-sensitive cases, and (2) the lack of evaluation approaches that
capture realistic application scenarios. To address these challenges, we
propose PrivacyLens, a novel framework designed to extend privacy-sensitive
seeds into expressive vignettes and further into agent trajectories, enabling
multi-level evaluation of privacy leakage in LM agents' actions. We instantiate
PrivacyLens with a collection of privacy norms grounded in privacy literature
and crowdsourced seeds. Using this dataset, we reveal a discrepancy between LM
performance in answering probing questions and their actual behavior when
executing user instructions in an agent setup. State-of-the-art LMs, like GPT-4
and Llama-3-70B, leak sensitive information in 25.68% and 38.69% of cases, even
when prompted with privacy-enhancing instructions. We also demonstrate the
dynamic nature of PrivacyLens by extending each seed into multiple trajectories
to red-team LM privacy leakage risk. Dataset and code are available at
https://github.com/SALT-NLP/PrivacyLens.

---
