# Daily Papers - 2024-09-03

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-03)

Total papers: 2

---

## 1. [Mini-Omni: Language Models Can Hear, Talk While Thinking in Streaming](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.16725)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.16725](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16725)

**Authors**: Zhifei Xie, Changqiao Wu

**Published**: 2024-08-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-03 by Omar Sanseviero

**Upvotes**: 53

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gpt-omni/mini-omni)

### Abstract

Recent advances in language models have achieved significant progress.
GPT-4o, as a new milestone, has enabled real-time conversations with humans,
demonstrating near-human natural fluency. Such human-computer interaction
necessitates models with the capability to perform reasoning directly with the
audio modality and generate output in streaming. However, this remains beyond
the reach of current academic models, as they typically depend on extra TTS
systems for speech synthesis, resulting in undesirable latency. This paper
introduces the Mini-Omni, an audio-based end-to-end conversational model,
capable of real-time speech interaction. To achieve this capability, we propose
a text-instructed speech generation method, along with batch-parallel
strategies during inference to further boost the performance. Our method also
helps to retain the original model's language capabilities with minimal
degradation, enabling other works to establish real-time interaction
capabilities. We call this training method "Any Model Can Talk". We also
introduce the VoiceAssistant-400K dataset to fine-tune models optimized for
speech output. To our best knowledge, Mini-Omni is the first fully end-to-end,
open-source model for real-time speech interaction, offering valuable potential
for future research.

---

## 2. [VisionTS: Visual Masked Autoencoders Are Free-Lunch Zero-Shot Time
  Series Forecasters](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.17253)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.17253](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.17253)

**Authors**: Mouxiang Chen, Lefei Shen, Zhuo Li, Xiaoyun Joy Wang, Jianling Sun, Chenghao Liu

**Published**: 2024-08-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-03 by chenghao liu

**Upvotes**: 39

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Keytoyze/VisionTS)

### Abstract

Foundation models have emerged as a promising approach in time series
forecasting (TSF). Existing approaches either fine-tune large language models
(LLMs) or build large-scale time-series datasets to develop TSF foundation
models. However, these methods face challenges due to the severe cross-domain
gap or in-domain heterogeneity. In this paper, we explore a new road to
building a TSF foundation model from rich and high-quality natural images,
based on the intrinsic similarities between images and time series. To bridge
the gap between the two domains, we reformulate the TSF task as an image
reconstruction task, which is further processed by a visual masked autoencoder
(MAE) self-supervised pre-trained on the ImageNet dataset. Surprisingly,
without further adaptation in the time-series domain, the proposed VisionTS
could achieve superior zero-shot forecasting performance compared to existing
TSF foundation models. With minimal fine-tuning, VisionTS could further improve
the forecasting and achieve state-of-the-art performance in most cases. These
findings suggest that visual models could be a free lunch for TSF and highlight
the potential for future cross-domain research between computer vision and TSF.
Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/Keytoyze/VisionTS.

---
