# Daily Papers - 2024-09-18

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-18)

Total papers: 16

---

## 1. [OmniGen: Unified Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.11340)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.11340](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11340)

**Authors**: Shitao Xiao, Yueze Wang, Junjie Zhou, Huaying Yuan, Xingrun Xing, Ruiran Yan, Shuting Wang, Tiejun Huang, Zheng Liu

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 115

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vectorspacelab/omnigen)

### Abstract

In this work, we introduce OmniGen, a new diffusion model for unified image
generation. Unlike popular diffusion models (e.g., Stable Diffusion), OmniGen
no longer requires additional modules such as ControlNet or IP-Adapter to
process diverse control conditions. OmniGenis characterized by the following
features: 1) Unification: OmniGen not only demonstrates text-to-image
generation capabilities but also inherently supports other downstream tasks,
such as image editing, subject-driven generation, and visual-conditional
generation. Additionally, OmniGen can handle classical computer vision tasks by
transforming them into image generation tasks, such as edge detection and human
pose recognition. 2) Simplicity: The architecture of OmniGen is highly
simplified, eliminating the need for additional text encoders. Moreover, it is
more user-friendly compared to existing diffusion models, enabling complex
tasks to be accomplished through instructions without the need for extra
preprocessing steps (e.g., human pose estimation), thereby significantly
simplifying the workflow of image generation. 3) Knowledge Transfer: Through
learning in a unified format, OmniGen effectively transfers knowledge across
different tasks, manages unseen tasks and domains, and exhibits novel
capabilities. We also explore the model's reasoning capabilities and potential
applications of chain-of-thought mechanism. This work represents the first
attempt at a general-purpose image generation model, and there remain several
unresolved issues. We will open-source the related resources at
https://github.com/VectorSpaceLab/OmniGen to foster advancements in this field.

---

## 2. [NVLM: Open Frontier-Class Multimodal LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.11402)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.11402](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11402)

**Authors**: Wenliang Dai, Nayeon Lee, Boxin Wang, Zhuoling Yang, Zihan Liu, Jon Barker, Tuomas Rintamaki, Mohammad Shoeybi, Bryan Catanzaro, Wei Ping

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 74

### Abstract

We introduce NVLM 1.0, a family of frontier-class multimodal large language
models (LLMs) that achieve state-of-the-art results on vision-language tasks,
rivaling the leading proprietary models (e.g., GPT-4o) and open-access models
(e.g., Llama 3-V 405B and InternVL 2). Remarkably, NVLM 1.0 shows improved
text-only performance over its LLM backbone after multimodal training. In terms
of model design, we perform a comprehensive comparison between decoder-only
multimodal LLMs (e.g., LLaVA) and cross-attention-based models (e.g.,
Flamingo). Based on the strengths and weaknesses of both approaches, we propose
a novel architecture that enhances both training efficiency and multimodal
reasoning capabilities. Furthermore, we introduce a 1-D tile-tagging design for
tile-based dynamic high-resolution images, which significantly boosts
performance on multimodal reasoning and OCR-related tasks. Regarding training
data, we meticulously curate and provide detailed information on our multimodal
pretraining and supervised fine-tuning datasets. Our findings indicate that
dataset quality and task diversity are more important than scale, even during
the pretraining phase, across all architectures. Notably, we develop
production-grade multimodality for the NVLM-1.0 models, enabling them to excel
in vision-language tasks while maintaining and even improving text-only
performance compared to their LLM backbones. To achieve this, we craft and
integrate a high-quality text-only dataset into multimodal training, alongside
a substantial amount of multimodal math and reasoning data, leading to enhanced
math and coding capabilities across modalities. To advance research in the
field, we are releasing the model weights and will open-source the code for the
community: https://nvlm-project.github.io/.

---

## 3. [Fine-Tuning Image-Conditional Diffusion Models is Easier than You Think](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.11355)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.11355](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11355)

**Authors**: Gonzalo Martin Garcia, Karim Abou Zeid, Christian Schmidt, Daan de Geus, Alexander Hermans, Bastian Leibe

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/VisualComputingInstitute/diffusion-e2e-ft) | [Project Page](https://gonzalomartingarcia.github.io/diffusion-e2e-ft/)

### Abstract

Recent work showed that large diffusion models can be reused as highly
precise monocular depth estimators by casting depth estimation as an
image-conditional image generation task. While the proposed model achieved
state-of-the-art results, high computational demands due to multi-step
inference limited its use in many scenarios. In this paper, we show that the
perceived inefficiency was caused by a flaw in the inference pipeline that has
so far gone unnoticed. The fixed model performs comparably to the best
previously reported configuration while being more than 200times faster. To
optimize for downstream task performance, we perform end-to-end fine-tuning on
top of the single-step model with task-specific losses and get a deterministic
model that outperforms all other diffusion-based depth and normal estimation
models on common zero-shot benchmarks. We surprisingly find that this
fine-tuning protocol also works directly on Stable Diffusion and achieves
comparable performance to current state-of-the-art diffusion-based depth and
normal estimation models, calling into question some of the conclusions drawn
from prior works.

---

## 4. [Phidias: A Generative Model for Creating 3D Content from Text, Image,
  and 3D Conditions with Reference-Augmented Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.11406)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.11406](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11406)

**Authors**: Zhenwei Wang, Tengfei Wang, Zexin He, Gerhard Hancke, Ziwei Liu, Rynson W. H. Lau

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

In 3D modeling, designers often use an existing 3D model as a reference to
create new ones. This practice has inspired the development of Phidias, a novel
generative model that uses diffusion for reference-augmented 3D generation.
Given an image, our method leverages a retrieved or user-provided 3D reference
model to guide the generation process, thereby enhancing the generation
quality, generalization ability, and controllability. Our model integrates
three key components: 1) meta-ControlNet that dynamically modulates the
conditioning strength, 2) dynamic reference routing that mitigates misalignment
between the input image and 3D reference, and 3) self-reference augmentations
that enable self-supervised training with a progressive curriculum.
Collectively, these designs result in a clear improvement over existing
methods. Phidias establishes a unified framework for 3D generation using text,
image, and 3D conditions with versatile applications.

---

## 5. [Promptriever: Instruction-Trained Retrievers Can Be Prompted Like
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.11136)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.11136](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11136)

**Authors**: Orion Weller, Benjamin Van Durme, Dawn Lawrie, Ashwin Paranjape, Yuhao Zhang, Jack Hessel

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by Alex Martin

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/orionw/promptriever)

### Abstract

Instruction-tuned language models (LM) are able to respond to imperative
commands, providing a more natural user interface compared to their base
counterparts. In this work, we present Promptriever, the first retrieval model
able to be prompted like an LM. To train Promptriever, we curate and release a
new instance-level instruction training set from MS MARCO, spanning nearly 500k
instances. Promptriever not only achieves strong performance on standard
retrieval tasks, but also follows instructions. We observe: (1) large gains
(reaching SoTA) on following detailed relevance instructions (+14.3 p-MRR /
+3.1 nDCG on FollowIR), (2) significantly increased robustness to lexical
choices/phrasing in the query+instruction (+12.9 Robustness@10 on InstructIR),
and (3) the ability to perform hyperparameter search via prompting to reliably
improve retrieval performance (+1.4 average increase on BEIR). Promptriever
demonstrates that retrieval models can be controlled with prompts on a
per-query basis, setting the stage for future work aligning LM prompting
techniques with information retrieval.

---

## 6. [EzAudio: Enhancing Text-to-Audio Generation with Efficient Diffusion
  Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.10819)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.10819](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.10819)

**Authors**: Jiarui Hai, Yong Xu, Hao Zhang, Chenxing Li, Helin Wang, Mounya Elhilali, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/haidog-yaqub/EzAudio) | [Project Page](https://haidog-yaqub.github.io/EzAudio-Page/)

### Abstract

Latent diffusion models have shown promising results in text-to-audio (T2A)
generation tasks, yet previous models have encountered difficulties in
generation quality, computational cost, diffusion sampling, and data
preparation. In this paper, we introduce EzAudio, a transformer-based T2A
diffusion model, to handle these challenges. Our approach includes several key
innovations: (1) We build the T2A model on the latent space of a 1D waveform
Variational Autoencoder (VAE), avoiding the complexities of handling 2D
spectrogram representations and using an additional neural vocoder. (2) We
design an optimized diffusion transformer architecture specifically tailored
for audio latent representations and diffusion modeling, which enhances
convergence speed, training stability, and memory usage, making the training
process easier and more efficient. (3) To tackle data scarcity, we adopt a
data-efficient training strategy that leverages unlabeled data for learning
acoustic dependencies, audio caption data annotated by audio-language models
for text-to-audio alignment learning, and human-labeled data for fine-tuning.
(4) We introduce a classifier-free guidance (CFG) rescaling method that
simplifies EzAudio by achieving strong prompt alignment while preserving great
audio quality when using larger CFG scores, eliminating the need to struggle
with finding the optimal CFG score to balance this trade-off. EzAudio surpasses
existing open-source models in both objective metrics and subjective
evaluations, delivering realistic listening experiences while maintaining a
streamlined model structure, low training costs, and an easy-to-follow training
pipeline. Code, data, and pre-trained models are released at:
https://haidog-yaqub.github.io/EzAudio-Page/.

---

## 7. [A Comprehensive Evaluation of Quantized Instruction-Tuned Large Language
  Models: An Experimental Analysis up to 405B](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.11055)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.11055](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11055)

**Authors**: Jemin Lee, Sihyeong Park, Jinse Kwon, Jihun Oh, Yongin Kwon

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by Jemin Lee

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Prior research works have evaluated quantized LLMs using limited metrics such
as perplexity or a few basic knowledge tasks and old datasets. Additionally,
recent large-scale models such as Llama 3.1 with up to 405B have not been
thoroughly examined. This paper evaluates the performance of instruction-tuned
LLMs across various quantization methods (GPTQ, AWQ, SmoothQuant, and FP8) on
models ranging from 7B to 405B. Using 13 benchmarks, we assess performance
across six task types: commonsense Q\&A, knowledge and language understanding,
instruction following, hallucination detection, mathematics, and dialogue. Our
key findings reveal that (1) quantizing a larger LLM to a similar size as a
smaller FP16 LLM generally performs better across most benchmarks, except for
hallucination detection and instruction following; (2) performance varies
significantly with different quantization methods, model size, and bit-width,
with weight-only methods often yielding better results in larger models; (3)
task difficulty does not significantly impact accuracy degradation due to
quantization; and (4) the MT-Bench evaluation method has limited discriminatory
power among recent high-performing LLMs.

---

## 8. [OSV: One Step is Enough for High-Quality Image to Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.11367)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.11367](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11367)

**Authors**: Xiaofeng Mao, Zhengkai Jiang, Fu-Yun Wang, Wenbing Zhu, Jiangning Zhang, Hao Chen, Mingmin Chi, Yabiao Wang

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Video diffusion models have shown great potential in generating high-quality
videos, making them an increasingly popular focus. However, their inherent
iterative nature leads to substantial computational and time costs. While
efforts have been made to accelerate video diffusion by reducing inference
steps (through techniques like consistency distillation) and GAN training
(these approaches often fall short in either performance or training
stability). In this work, we introduce a two-stage training framework that
effectively combines consistency distillation with GAN training to address
these challenges. Additionally, we propose a novel video discriminator design,
which eliminates the need for decoding the video latents and improves the final
performance. Our model is capable of producing high-quality videos in merely
one-step, with the flexibility to perform multi-step refinement for further
performance enhancement. Our quantitative evaluation on the OpenWebVid-1M
benchmark shows that our model significantly outperforms existing methods.
Notably, our 1-step performance(FVD 171.15) exceeds the 8-step performance of
the consistency distillation based method, AnimateLCM (FVD 184.79), and
approaches the 25-step performance of advanced Stable Video Diffusion (FVD
156.94).

---

## 9. [On the limits of agency in agent-based models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.10568)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.10568](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.10568)

**Authors**: Ayush Chopra, Shashank Kumar, Nurullah Giray-Kuru, Ramesh Raskar, Arnau Quera-Bofarull

**Published**: 2024-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/agenttorch/agenttorch)

### Abstract

Agent-based modeling (ABM) seeks to understand the behavior of complex
systems by simulating a collection of agents that act and interact within an
environment. Their practical utility requires capturing realistic environment
dynamics and adaptive agent behavior while efficiently simulating million-size
populations. Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) present an
opportunity to enhance ABMs by using LLMs as agents with further potential to
capture adaptive behavior. However, the computational infeasibility of using
LLMs for large populations has hindered their widespread adoption. In this
paper, we introduce AgentTorch -- a framework that scales ABMs to millions of
agents while capturing high-resolution agent behavior using LLMs. We benchmark
the utility of LLMs as ABM agents, exploring the trade-off between simulation
scale and individual agency. Using the COVID-19 pandemic as a case study, we
demonstrate how AgentTorch can simulate 8.4 million agents representing New
York City, capturing the impact of isolation and employment behavior on health
and economic outcomes. We compare the performance of different agent
architectures based on heuristic and LLM agents in predicting disease waves and
unemployment rates. Furthermore, we showcase AgentTorch's capabilities for
retrospective, counterfactual, and prospective analyses, highlighting how
adaptive agent behavior can help overcome the limitations of historical data in
policy design. AgentTorch is an open-source project actively being used for
policy-making and scientific discovery around the world. The framework is
available here: github.com/AgentTorch/AgentTorch.

---

## 10. [Agile Continuous Jumping in Discontinuous Terrains](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.10923)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.10923](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.10923)

**Authors**: Yuxiang Yang, Guanya Shi, Changyi Lin, Xiangyun Meng, Rosario Scalise, Mateo Guaman Castro, Wenhao Yu, Tingnan Zhang, Ding Zhao, Jie Tan, Byron Boots

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

We focus on agile, continuous, and terrain-adaptive jumping of quadrupedal
robots in discontinuous terrains such as stairs and stepping stones. Unlike
single-step jumping, continuous jumping requires accurately executing highly
dynamic motions over long horizons, which is challenging for existing
approaches. To accomplish this task, we design a hierarchical learning and
control framework, which consists of a learned heightmap predictor for robust
terrain perception, a reinforcement-learning-based centroidal-level motion
policy for versatile and terrain-adaptive planning, and a low-level model-based
leg controller for accurate motion tracking. In addition, we minimize the
sim-to-real gap by accurately modeling the hardware characteristics. Our
framework enables a Unitree Go1 robot to perform agile and continuous jumps on
human-sized stairs and sparse stepping stones, for the first time to the best
of our knowledge. In particular, the robot can cross two stair steps in each
jump and completes a 3.5m long, 2.8m high, 14-step staircase in 4.5 seconds.
Moreover, the same policy outperforms baselines in various other parkour tasks,
such as jumping over single horizontal or vertical discontinuities. Experiment
videos can be found at https://yxyang.github.io/jumping\_cod/.

---

## 11. [SplatFields: Neural Gaussian Splats for Sparse 3D and 4D Reconstruction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.11211)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.11211](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11211)

**Authors**: Marko Mihajlovic, Sergey Prokudin, Siyu Tang, Robert Maier, Federica Bogo, Tony Tung, Edmond Boyer

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/markomih/splatfields)

### Abstract

Digitizing 3D static scenes and 4D dynamic events from multi-view images has
long been a challenge in computer vision and graphics. Recently, 3D Gaussian
Splatting (3DGS) has emerged as a practical and scalable reconstruction method,
gaining popularity due to its impressive reconstruction quality, real-time
rendering capabilities, and compatibility with widely used visualization tools.
However, the method requires a substantial number of input views to achieve
high-quality scene reconstruction, introducing a significant practical
bottleneck. This challenge is especially severe in capturing dynamic scenes,
where deploying an extensive camera array can be prohibitively costly. In this
work, we identify the lack of spatial autocorrelation of splat features as one
of the factors contributing to the suboptimal performance of the 3DGS technique
in sparse reconstruction settings. To address the issue, we propose an
optimization strategy that effectively regularizes splat features by modeling
them as the outputs of a corresponding implicit neural field. This results in a
consistent enhancement of reconstruction quality across various scenarios. Our
approach effectively handles static and dynamic cases, as demonstrated by
extensive testing across different setups and scene complexities.

---

## 12. [Measuring and Enhancing Trustworthiness of LLMs in RAG through Grounded
  Attributions and Learning to Refuse](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.11242)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.11242](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11242)

**Authors**: Maojia Song, Shang Hong Sim, Rishabh Bhardwaj, Hai Leong Chieu, Navonil Majumder, Soujanya Poria

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by Soujanya Poria

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/declare-lab/trust-align)

### Abstract

LLMs are an integral part of retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems.
While many studies focus on evaluating the quality of end-to-end RAG systems,
there is a lack of research on understanding the appropriateness of an LLM for
the RAG task. Thus, we introduce a new metric, Trust-Score, that provides a
holistic evaluation of the trustworthiness of LLMs in an RAG framework. We show
that various prompting methods, such as in-context learning, fail to adapt LLMs
effectively to the RAG task. Thus, we propose Trust-Align, a framework to align
LLMs for higher Trust-Score. LLaMA-3-8b, aligned with our method, significantly
outperforms open-source LLMs of comparable sizes on ASQA (up 10.7), QAMPARI (up
29.2) and ELI5 (up 14.9). We release our code at:
https://github.com/declare-lab/trust-align.

---

## 13. [Human-like Affective Cognition in Foundation Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.11733)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.11733](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11733)

**Authors**: Kanishk Gandhi, Zoe Lynch, Jan-Philipp Fränken, Kayla Patterson, Sharon Wambu, Tobias Gerstenberg, Desmond C. Ong, Noah D. Goodman

**Published**: 2024-09-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by Kanishk Gandhi

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Understanding emotions is fundamental to human interaction and experience.
Humans easily infer emotions from situations or facial expressions, situations
from emotions, and do a variety of other affective cognition. How adept
is modern AI at these inferences? We introduce an evaluation framework for
testing affective cognition in foundation models. Starting from psychological
theory, we generate 1,280 diverse scenarios exploring relationships between
appraisals, emotions, expressions, and outcomes. We evaluate the abilities of
foundation models (GPT-4, Claude-3, Gemini-1.5-Pro) and humans (N = 567) across
carefully selected conditions. Our results show foundation models tend to agree
with human intuitions, matching or exceeding interparticipant agreement. In
some conditions, models are ``superhuman'' -- they better predict modal human
judgements than the average human. All models benefit from chain-of-thought
reasoning. This suggests foundation models have acquired a human-like
understanding of emotions and their influence on beliefs and behavior.

---

## 14. [PDMX: A Large-Scale Public Domain MusicXML Dataset for Symbolic Music
  Processing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.10831)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.10831](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.10831)

**Authors**: Phillip Long, Zachary Novack, Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick, Julian McAuley

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by Zachary Novack

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pnlong/PDMX) | [Project Page](https://pnlong.github.io/PDMX.demo/)

### Abstract

The recent explosion of generative AI-Music systems has raised numerous
concerns over data copyright, licensing music from musicians, and the conflict
between open-source AI and large prestige companies. Such issues highlight the
need for publicly available, copyright-free musical data, in which there is a
large shortage, particularly for symbolic music data. To alleviate this issue,
we present PDMX: a large-scale open-source dataset of over 250K public domain
MusicXML scores collected from the score-sharing forum MuseScore, making it the
largest available copyright-free symbolic music dataset to our knowledge. PDMX
additionally includes a wealth of both tag and user interaction metadata,
allowing us to efficiently analyze the dataset and filter for high quality
user-generated scores. Given the additional metadata afforded by our data
collection process, we conduct multitrack music generation experiments
evaluating how different representative subsets of PDMX lead to different
behaviors in downstream models, and how user-rating statistics can be used as
an effective measure of data quality. Examples can be found at
https://pnlong.github.io/PDMX.demo/.

---

## 15. [Single-Layer Learnable Activation for Implicit Neural Representation
  (SL^{2}A-INR)](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.10836)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.10836](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.10836)

**Authors**: Moein Heidari, Reza Rezaeian, Reza Azad, Dorit Merhof, Hamid Soltanian-Zadeh, Ilker Hacihaliloglu

**Published**: 2024-09-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by Moein Heidari

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Iceage7/SL2A-INR)

### Abstract

Implicit Neural Representation (INR), leveraging a neural network to
transform coordinate input into corresponding attributes, has recently driven
significant advances in several vision-related domains. However, the
performance of INR is heavily influenced by the choice of the nonlinear
activation function used in its multilayer perceptron (MLP) architecture.
Multiple nonlinearities have been investigated; yet, current INRs face
limitations in capturing high-frequency components, diverse signal types, and
handling inverse problems. We have identified that these problems can be
greatly alleviated by introducing a paradigm shift in INRs. We find that an
architecture with learnable activations in initial layers can represent fine
details in the underlying signals. Specifically, we propose SL^{2}A-INR, a
hybrid network for INR with a single-layer learnable activation function,
prompting the effectiveness of traditional ReLU-based MLPs. Our method performs
superior across diverse tasks, including image representation, 3D shape
reconstructions, inpainting, single image super-resolution, CT reconstruction,
and novel view synthesis. Through comprehensive experiments, SL^{2}A-INR sets
new benchmarks in accuracy, quality, and convergence rates for INR.

---

## 16. [Implicit Neural Representations with Fourier Kolmogorov-Arnold Networks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.09323)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.09323](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09323)

**Authors**: Ali Mehrabian, Parsa Mojarad Adi, Moein Heidari, Ilker Hacihaliloglu

**Published**: 2024-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-18 by Moein Heidari

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Ali-Meh619/FKAN)

### Abstract

Implicit neural representations (INRs) use neural networks to provide
continuous and resolution-independent representations of complex signals with a
small number of parameters. However, existing INR models often fail to capture
important frequency components specific to each task. To address this issue, in
this paper, we propose a Fourier Kolmogorov Arnold network (FKAN) for INRs. The
proposed FKAN utilizes learnable activation functions modeled as Fourier series
in the first layer to effectively control and learn the task-specific frequency
components. In addition, the activation functions with learnable Fourier
coefficients improve the ability of the network to capture complex patterns and
details, which is beneficial for high-resolution and high-dimensional data.
Experimental results show that our proposed FKAN model outperforms three
state-of-the-art baseline schemes, and improves the peak signal-to-noise ratio
(PSNR) and structural similarity index measure (SSIM) for the image
representation task and intersection over union (IoU) for the 3D occupancy
volume representation task, respectively.

---
