# Daily Papers - 2024-09-11

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-11)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [LLaMA-Omni: Seamless Speech Interaction with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.06666)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.06666](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06666)

**Authors**: Qingkai Fang, Shoutao Guo, Yan Zhou, Zhengrui Ma, Shaolei Zhang, Yang Feng

**Published**: 2024-09-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-11 by Qingkai Fang

**Upvotes**: 60

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ictnlp/llama-omni)

### Abstract

Models like GPT-4o enable real-time interaction with large language models
(LLMs) through speech, significantly enhancing user experience compared to
traditional text-based interaction. However, there is still a lack of
exploration on how to build speech interaction models based on open-source
LLMs. To address this, we propose LLaMA-Omni, a novel model architecture
designed for low-latency and high-quality speech interaction with LLMs.
LLaMA-Omni integrates a pretrained speech encoder, a speech adaptor, an LLM,
and a streaming speech decoder. It eliminates the need for speech
transcription, and can simultaneously generate text and speech responses
directly from speech instructions with extremely low latency. We build our
model based on the latest Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct model. To align the model with
speech interaction scenarios, we construct a dataset named InstructS2S-200K,
which includes 200K speech instructions and corresponding speech responses.
Experimental results show that compared to previous speech-language models,
LLaMA-Omni provides better responses in both content and style, with a response
latency as low as 226ms. Additionally, training LLaMA-Omni takes less than 3
days on just 4 GPUs, paving the way for the efficient development of
speech-language models in the future.

---

## 2. [GroUSE: A Benchmark to Evaluate Evaluators in Grounded Question
  Answering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.06595)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.06595](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06595)

**Authors**: Sacha Muller, António Loison, Bilel Omrani, Gautier Viaud

**Published**: 2024-09-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-11 by Antonio Loison

**Upvotes**: 38

### Abstract

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a common paradigm to use
Large Language Models (LLMs) alongside private and up-to-date knowledge bases.
In this work, we address the challenges of using LLM-as-a-Judge when evaluating
grounded answers generated by RAG systems. To assess the calibration and
discrimination capabilities of judge models, we identify 7 generator failure
modes and introduce GroUSE (Grounded QA Unitary Scoring of Evaluators), a
meta-evaluation benchmark of 144 unit tests. This benchmark reveals that
existing automated RAG evaluation frameworks often overlook important failure
modes, even when using GPT-4 as a judge.
  To improve on the current design of automated RAG evaluation frameworks, we
propose a novel pipeline and find that while closed models perform well on
GroUSE, state-of-the-art open-source judges do not generalize to our proposed
criteria, despite strong correlation with GPT-4's judgement. Our findings
suggest that correlation with GPT-4 is an incomplete proxy for the practical
performance of judge models and should be supplemented with evaluations on unit
tests for precise failure mode detection.
  We further show that finetuning Llama-3 on GPT-4's reasoning traces
significantly boosts its evaluation capabilities, improving upon both
correlation with GPT-4's evaluations and calibration on reference situations.

---

## 3. [INTRA: Interaction Relationship-aware Weakly Supervised Affordance
  Grounding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.06210)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.06210](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06210)

**Authors**: Ji Ha Jang, Hoigi Seo, Se Young Chun

**Published**: 2024-09-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-11 by Hoigi Seo

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

Affordance denotes the potential interactions inherent in objects. The
perception of affordance can enable intelligent agents to navigate and interact
with new environments efficiently. Weakly supervised affordance grounding
teaches agents the concept of affordance without costly pixel-level
annotations, but with exocentric images. Although recent advances in weakly
supervised affordance grounding yielded promising results, there remain
challenges including the requirement for paired exocentric and egocentric image
dataset, and the complexity in grounding diverse affordances for a single
object. To address them, we propose INTeraction Relationship-aware weakly
supervised Affordance grounding (INTRA). Unlike prior arts, INTRA recasts this
problem as representation learning to identify unique features of interactions
through contrastive learning with exocentric images only, eliminating the need
for paired datasets. Moreover, we leverage vision-language model embeddings for
performing affordance grounding flexibly with any text, designing
text-conditioned affordance map generation to reflect interaction relationship
for contrastive learning and enhancing robustness with our text synonym
augmentation. Our method outperformed prior arts on diverse datasets such as
AGD20K, IIT-AFF, CAD and UMD. Additionally, experimental results demonstrate
that our method has remarkable domain scalability for synthesized images /
illustrations and is capable of performing affordance grounding for novel
interactions and objects.

---

## 4. [SongCreator: Lyrics-based Universal Song Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.06029)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.06029](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06029)

**Authors**: Shun Lei, Yixuan Zhou, Boshi Tang, Max W. Y. Lam, Feng Liu, Hangyu Liu, Jingcheng Wu, Shiyin Kang, Zhiyong Wu, Helen Meng

**Published**: 2024-09-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Music is an integral part of human culture, embodying human intelligence and
creativity, of which songs compose an essential part. While various aspects of
song generation have been explored by previous works, such as singing voice,
vocal composition and instrumental arrangement, etc., generating songs with
both vocals and accompaniment given lyrics remains a significant challenge,
hindering the application of music generation models in the real world. In this
light, we propose SongCreator, a song-generation system designed to tackle this
challenge. The model features two novel designs: a meticulously designed
dual-sequence language model (DSLM) to capture the information of vocals and
accompaniment for song generation, and an additional attention mask strategy
for DSLM, which allows our model to understand, generate and edit songs, making
it suitable for various song-related generation tasks. Extensive experiments
demonstrate the effectiveness of SongCreator by achieving state-of-the-art or
competitive performances on all eight tasks. Notably, it surpasses previous
works by a large margin in lyrics-to-song and lyrics-to-vocals. Additionally,
it is able to independently control the acoustic conditions of the vocals and
accompaniment in the generated song through different prompts, exhibiting its
potential applicability. Our samples are available at
https://songcreator.github.io/.

---

## 5. [Draw an Audio: Leveraging Multi-Instruction for Video-to-Audio Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.06135)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.06135](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06135)

**Authors**: Qi Yang, Binjie Mao, Zili Wang, Xing Nie, Pengfei Gao, Ying Guo, Cheng Zhen, Pengfei Yan, Shiming Xiang

**Published**: 2024-09-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Foley is a term commonly used in filmmaking, referring to the addition of
daily sound effects to silent films or videos to enhance the auditory
experience. Video-to-Audio (V2A), as a particular type of automatic foley task,
presents inherent challenges related to audio-visual synchronization. These
challenges encompass maintaining the content consistency between the input
video and the generated audio, as well as the alignment of temporal and
loudness properties within the video. To address these issues, we construct a
controllable video-to-audio synthesis model, termed Draw an Audio, which
supports multiple input instructions through drawn masks and loudness signals.
To ensure content consistency between the synthesized audio and target video,
we introduce the Mask-Attention Module (MAM), which employs masked video
instruction to enable the model to focus on regions of interest. Additionally,
we implement the Time-Loudness Module (TLM), which uses an auxiliary loudness
signal to ensure the synthesis of sound that aligns with the video in both
loudness and temporal dimensions. Furthermore, we have extended a large-scale
V2A dataset, named VGGSound-Caption, by annotating caption prompts. Extensive
experiments on challenging benchmarks across two large-scale V2A datasets
verify Draw an Audio achieves the state-of-the-art. Project page:
https://yannqi.github.io/Draw-an-Audio/.

---

## 6. [SaRA: High-Efficient Diffusion Model Fine-tuning with Progressive Sparse
  Low-Rank Adaptation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.06633)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.06633](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06633)

**Authors**: Teng Hu, Jiangning Zhang, Ran Yi, Hongrui Huang, Yabiao Wang, Lizhuang Ma

**Published**: 2024-09-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sjtuplayer/sara)

### Abstract

In recent years, the development of diffusion models has led to significant
progress in image and video generation tasks, with pre-trained models like the
Stable Diffusion series playing a crucial role. Inspired by model pruning which
lightens large pre-trained models by removing unimportant parameters, we
propose a novel model fine-tuning method to make full use of these ineffective
parameters and enable the pre-trained model with new task-specified
capabilities. In this work, we first investigate the importance of parameters
in pre-trained diffusion models, and discover that the smallest 10% to 20% of
parameters by absolute values do not contribute to the generation process.
Based on this observation, we propose a method termed SaRA that re-utilizes
these temporarily ineffective parameters, equating to optimizing a sparse
weight matrix to learn the task-specific knowledge. To mitigate overfitting, we
propose a nuclear-norm-based low-rank sparse training scheme for efficient
fine-tuning. Furthermore, we design a new progressive parameter adjustment
strategy to make full use of the re-trained/finetuned parameters. Finally, we
propose a novel unstructural backpropagation strategy, which significantly
reduces memory costs during fine-tuning. Our method enhances the generative
capabilities of pre-trained models in downstream applications and outperforms
traditional fine-tuning methods like LoRA in maintaining model's generalization
ability. We validate our approach through fine-tuning experiments on SD models,
demonstrating significant improvements. SaRA also offers a practical advantage
that requires only a single line of code modification for efficient
implementation and is seamlessly compatible with existing methods.

---

## 7. [LEIA: Latent View-invariant Embeddings for Implicit 3D Articulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.06703)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.06703](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06703)

**Authors**: Archana Swaminathan, Anubhav Gupta, Kamal Gupta, Shishira R. Maiya, Vatsal Agarwal, Abhinav Shrivastava

**Published**: 2024-09-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-11 by Archana Swaminathan

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have revolutionized the reconstruction of
static scenes and objects in 3D, offering unprecedented quality. However,
extending NeRFs to model dynamic objects or object articulations remains a
challenging problem. Previous works have tackled this issue by focusing on
part-level reconstruction and motion estimation for objects, but they often
rely on heuristics regarding the number of moving parts or object categories,
which can limit their practical use. In this work, we introduce LEIA, a novel
approach for representing dynamic 3D objects. Our method involves observing the
object at distinct time steps or "states" and conditioning a hypernetwork on
the current state, using this to parameterize our NeRF. This approach allows us
to learn a view-invariant latent representation for each state. We further
demonstrate that by interpolating between these states, we can generate novel
articulation configurations in 3D space that were previously unseen. Our
experimental results highlight the effectiveness of our method in articulating
objects in a manner that is independent of the viewing angle and joint
configuration. Notably, our approach outperforms previous methods that rely on
motion information for articulation registration.

---
