# Daily Papers - 2024-09-13

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-09-13)

Total papers: 10

---

## 1. [DSBench: How Far Are Data Science Agents to Becoming Data Science
  Experts?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.07703)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.07703](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07703)

**Authors**: Liqiang Jing, Zhehui Huang, Xiaoyang Wang, Wenlin Yao, Wenhao Yu, Kaixin Ma, Hongming Zhang, Xinya Du, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2024-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-13 by Xiaoyang Wang

**Upvotes**: 66

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/LiqiangJing/DSBench)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) and Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have
demonstrated impressive language/vision reasoning abilities, igniting the
recent trend of building agents for targeted applications such as shopping
assistants or AI software engineers. Recently, many data science benchmarks
have been proposed to investigate their performance in the data science domain.
However, existing data science benchmarks still fall short when compared to
real-world data science applications due to their simplified settings. To
bridge this gap, we introduce DSBench, a comprehensive benchmark designed to
evaluate data science agents with realistic tasks. This benchmark includes 466
data analysis tasks and 74 data modeling tasks, sourced from Eloquence and
Kaggle competitions. DSBench offers a realistic setting by encompassing long
contexts, multimodal task backgrounds, reasoning with large data files and
multi-table structures, and performing end-to-end data modeling tasks. Our
evaluation of state-of-the-art LLMs, LVLMs, and agents shows that they struggle
with most tasks, with the best agent solving only 34.12% of data analysis tasks
and achieving a 34.74% Relative Performance Gap (RPG). These findings
underscore the need for further advancements in developing more practical,
intelligent, and autonomous data science agents.

---

## 2. [Windows Agent Arena: Evaluating Multi-Modal OS Agents at Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.08264)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.08264](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08264)

**Authors**: Rogerio Bonatti, Dan Zhao, Francesco Bonacci, Dillon Dupont, Sara Abdali, Yinheng Li, Justin Wagle, Kazuhito Koishida, Arthur Bucker, Lawrence Jang, Zack Hui

**Published**: 2024-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 48

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/windowsagentarena)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) show remarkable potential to act as computer
agents, enhancing human productivity and software accessibility in multi-modal
tasks that require planning and reasoning. However, measuring agent performance
in realistic environments remains a challenge since: (i) most benchmarks are
limited to specific modalities or domains (e.g. text-only, web navigation, Q&A,
coding) and (ii) full benchmark evaluations are slow (on order of magnitude of
days) given the multi-step sequential nature of tasks. To address these
challenges, we introduce the Windows Agent Arena: a reproducible, general
environment focusing exclusively on the Windows operating system (OS) where
agents can operate freely within a real Windows OS and use the same wide range
of applications, tools, and web browsers available to human users when solving
tasks. We adapt the OSWorld framework (Xie et al., 2024) to create 150+ diverse
Windows tasks across representative domains that require agent abilities in
planning, screen understanding, and tool usage. Our benchmark is scalable and
can be seamlessly parallelized in Azure for a full benchmark evaluation in as
little as 20 minutes. To demonstrate Windows Agent Arena's capabilities, we
also introduce a new multi-modal agent, Navi. Our agent achieves a success rate
of 19.5% in the Windows domain, compared to 74.5% performance of an unassisted
human. Navi also demonstrates strong performance on another popular web-based
benchmark, Mind2Web. We offer extensive quantitative and qualitative analysis
of Navi's performance, and provide insights into the opportunities for future
research in agent development and data generation using Windows Agent Arena.
  Webpage: https://microsoft.github.io/WindowsAgentArena
  Code: https://github.com/microsoft/WindowsAgentArena

---

## 3. [Can LLMs Generate Novel Research Ideas? A Large-Scale Human Study with
  100+ NLP Researchers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.04109)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.04109](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04109)

**Authors**: Chenglei Si, Diyi Yang, Tatsunori Hashimoto

**Published**: 2024-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-13 by Omar Sanseviero

**Upvotes**: 48

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/simplaj/AI-Researcher-Spark)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have sparked optimism
about their potential to accelerate scientific discovery, with a growing number
of works proposing research agents that autonomously generate and validate new
ideas. Despite this, no evaluations have shown that LLM systems can take the
very first step of producing novel, expert-level ideas, let alone perform the
entire research process. We address this by establishing an experimental design
that evaluates research idea generation while controlling for confounders and
performs the first head-to-head comparison between expert NLP researchers and
an LLM ideation agent. By recruiting over 100 NLP researchers to write novel
ideas and blind reviews of both LLM and human ideas, we obtain the first
statistically significant conclusion on current LLM capabilities for research
ideation: we find LLM-generated ideas are judged as more novel (p < 0.05) than
human expert ideas while being judged slightly weaker on feasibility. Studying
our agent baselines closely, we identify open problems in building and
evaluating research agents, including failures of LLM self-evaluation and their
lack of diversity in generation. Finally, we acknowledge that human judgements
of novelty can be difficult, even by experts, and propose an end-to-end study
design which recruits researchers to execute these ideas into full projects,
enabling us to study whether these novelty and feasibility judgements result in
meaningful differences in research outcome.

---

## 4. [IFAdapter: Instance Feature Control for Grounded Text-to-Image
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.08240)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.08240](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08240)

**Authors**: Yinwei Wu, Xianpan Zhou, Bing Ma, Xuefeng Su, Kai Ma, Xinchao Wang

**Published**: 2024-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-13 by AWEI

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

While Text-to-Image (T2I) diffusion models excel at generating visually
appealing images of individual instances, they struggle to accurately position
and control the features generation of multiple instances. The Layout-to-Image
(L2I) task was introduced to address the positioning challenges by
incorporating bounding boxes as spatial control signals, but it still falls
short in generating precise instance features. In response, we propose the
Instance Feature Generation (IFG) task, which aims to ensure both positional
accuracy and feature fidelity in generated instances. To address the IFG task,
we introduce the Instance Feature Adapter (IFAdapter). The IFAdapter enhances
feature depiction by incorporating additional appearance tokens and utilizing
an Instance Semantic Map to align instance-level features with spatial
locations. The IFAdapter guides the diffusion process as a plug-and-play
module, making it adaptable to various community models. For evaluation, we
contribute an IFG benchmark and develop a verification pipeline to objectively
compare models' abilities to generate instances with accurate positioning and
features. Experimental results demonstrate that IFAdapter outperforms other
models in both quantitative and qualitative evaluations.

---

## 5. [Source2Synth: Synthetic Data Generation and Curation Grounded in Real
  Data Sources](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.08239)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.08239](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08239)

**Authors**: Alisia Lupidi, Carlos Gemmell, Nicola Cancedda, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Jason Weston, Jakob Foerster, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli

**Published**: 2024-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

Large Language Models still struggle in challenging scenarios that leverage
structured data, complex reasoning, or tool usage. In this paper, we propose
Source2Synth: a new method that can be used for teaching LLMs new skills
without relying on costly human annotations. Source2Synth takes as input a
custom data source and produces synthetic data points with intermediate
reasoning steps grounded in real-world sources. Source2Synth improves the
dataset quality by discarding low-quality generations based on their
answerability. We demonstrate the generality of this approach by applying it to
two challenging domains: we test reasoning abilities in multi-hop question
answering (MHQA), and tool usage in tabular question answering (TQA). Our
method improves performance by 25.51% for TQA on WikiSQL and 22.57% for MHQA on
HotPotQA compared to the fine-tuned baselines.

---

## 6. [TextBoost: Towards One-Shot Personalization of Text-to-Image Models via
  Fine-tuning Text Encoder](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.08248)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.08248](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08248)

**Authors**: NaHyeon Park, Kunhee Kim, Hyunjung Shim

**Published**: 2024-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nahyeonkaty/textboost)

### Abstract

Recent breakthroughs in text-to-image models have opened up promising
research avenues in personalized image generation, enabling users to create
diverse images of a specific subject using natural language prompts. However,
existing methods often suffer from performance degradation when given only a
single reference image. They tend to overfit the input, producing highly
similar outputs regardless of the text prompt. This paper addresses the
challenge of one-shot personalization by mitigating overfitting, enabling the
creation of controllable images through text prompts. Specifically, we propose
a selective fine-tuning strategy that focuses on the text encoder. Furthermore,
we introduce three key techniques to enhance personalization performance: (1)
augmentation tokens to encourage feature disentanglement and alleviate
overfitting, (2) a knowledge-preservation loss to reduce language drift and
promote generalizability across diverse prompts, and (3) SNR-weighted sampling
for efficient training. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach
efficiently generates high-quality, diverse images using only a single
reference image while significantly reducing memory and storage requirements.

---

## 7. [DreamHOI: Subject-Driven Generation of 3D Human-Object Interactions with
  Diffusion Priors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.08278)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.08278](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08278)

**Authors**: Thomas Hanwen Zhu, Ruining Li, Tomas Jakab

**Published**: 2024-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

We present DreamHOI, a novel method for zero-shot synthesis of human-object
interactions (HOIs), enabling a 3D human model to realistically interact with
any given object based on a textual description. This task is complicated by
the varying categories and geometries of real-world objects and the scarcity of
datasets encompassing diverse HOIs. To circumvent the need for extensive data,
we leverage text-to-image diffusion models trained on billions of image-caption
pairs. We optimize the articulation of a skinned human mesh using Score
Distillation Sampling (SDS) gradients obtained from these models, which predict
image-space edits. However, directly backpropagating image-space gradients into
complex articulation parameters is ineffective due to the local nature of such
gradients. To overcome this, we introduce a dual implicit-explicit
representation of a skinned mesh, combining (implicit) neural radiance fields
(NeRFs) with (explicit) skeleton-driven mesh articulation. During optimization,
we transition between implicit and explicit forms, grounding the NeRF
generation while refining the mesh articulation. We validate our approach
through extensive experiments, demonstrating its effectiveness in generating
realistic HOIs.

---

## 8. [PiTe: Pixel-Temporal Alignment for Large Video-Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.07239)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.07239](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07239)

**Authors**: Yang Liu, Pengxiang Ding, Siteng Huang, Min Zhang, Han Zhao, Donglin Wang

**Published**: 2024-09-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-13 by Siteng Huang

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yliu-cs/pite)

### Abstract

Fueled by the Large Language Models (LLMs) wave, Large Visual-Language Models
(LVLMs) have emerged as a pivotal advancement, bridging the gap between image
and text. However, video making it challenging for LVLMs to perform adequately
due to the complexity of the relationship between language and spatial-temporal
data structure. Recent Large Video-Language Models (LVidLMs) align feature of
static visual data like image into latent space of language feature, by general
multi-modal tasks to leverage abilities of LLMs sufficiently. In this paper, we
explore fine-grained alignment approach via object trajectory for different
modalities across both spatial and temporal dimensions simultaneously. Thus, we
propose a novel LVidLM by trajectory-guided Pixel-Temporal Alignment, dubbed
PiTe, that exhibits promising applicable model property. To achieve
fine-grained video-language alignment, we curate a multi-modal pre-training
dataset PiTe-143k, the dataset provision of moving trajectories in pixel level
for all individual objects, that appear and mention in the video and caption
both, by our automatic annotation pipeline. Meanwhile, PiTe demonstrates
astounding capabilities on myriad video-related multi-modal tasks through beat
the state-of-the-art methods by a large margin.

---

## 9. [FlashSplat: 2D to 3D Gaussian Splatting Segmentation Solved Optimally](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.08270)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.08270](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08270)

**Authors**: Qiuhong Shen, Xingyi Yang, Xinchao Wang

**Published**: 2024-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-13 by Xingyi Yang

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/florinshen/flashsplat)

### Abstract

This study addresses the challenge of accurately segmenting 3D Gaussian
Splatting from 2D masks. Conventional methods often rely on iterative gradient
descent to assign each Gaussian a unique label, leading to lengthy optimization
and sub-optimal solutions. Instead, we propose a straightforward yet globally
optimal solver for 3D-GS segmentation. The core insight of our method is that,
with a reconstructed 3D-GS scene, the rendering of the 2D masks is essentially
a linear function with respect to the labels of each Gaussian. As such, the
optimal label assignment can be solved via linear programming in closed form.
This solution capitalizes on the alpha blending characteristic of the splatting
process for single step optimization. By incorporating the background bias in
our objective function, our method shows superior robustness in 3D segmentation
against noises. Remarkably, our optimization completes within 30 seconds, about
50times faster than the best existing methods. Extensive experiments
demonstrate the efficiency and robustness of our method in segmenting various
scenes, and its superior performance in downstream tasks such as object removal
and inpainting. Demos and code will be available at
https://github.com/florinshen/FlashSplat.

---

## 10. [Can OOD Object Detectors Learn from Foundation Models?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2409.05162)

**ArXiv ID**: [2409.05162](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05162)

**Authors**: Jiahui Liu, Xin Wen, Shizhen Zhao, Yingxian Chen, Xiaojuan Qi

**Published**: 2024-09-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-09-13 by Jiahui Liu

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/cvmi-lab/syncood)

### Abstract

Out-of-distribution (OOD) object detection is a challenging task due to the
absence of open-set OOD data. Inspired by recent advancements in text-to-image
generative models, such as Stable Diffusion, we study the potential of
generative models trained on large-scale open-set data to synthesize OOD
samples, thereby enhancing OOD object detection. We introduce SyncOOD, a simple
data curation method that capitalizes on the capabilities of large foundation
models to automatically extract meaningful OOD data from text-to-image
generative models. This offers the model access to open-world knowledge
encapsulated within off-the-shelf foundation models. The synthetic OOD samples
are then employed to augment the training of a lightweight, plug-and-play OOD
detector, thus effectively optimizing the in-distribution (ID)/OOD decision
boundaries. Extensive experiments across multiple benchmarks demonstrate that
SyncOOD significantly outperforms existing methods, establishing new
state-of-the-art performance with minimal synthetic data usage.

---
