# Daily Papers - 2023-12-13

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-13)

Total papers: 18

---

## 1. [SwitchHead: Accelerating Transformers with Mixture-of-Experts Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07987)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07987](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07987)

**Authors**: Róbert Csordás, Piotr Piękos, Kazuki Irie, Jürgen Schmidhuber

**Published**: 2023-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 41

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/robertcsordas/moe_attention)

### Abstract

The costly self-attention layers in modern Transformers require memory and
compute quadratic in sequence length. Existing approximation methods usually
underperform and fail to obtain significant speedups in practice. Here we
present SwitchHead - a novel method that reduces both compute and memory
requirements and achieves wall-clock speedup, while matching the language
modeling performance of baseline Transformers with the same parameter budget.
SwitchHead uses Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) layers for the value and output
projections and requires 4 to 8 times fewer attention matrices than standard
Transformers. Our novel attention can also be combined with MoE MLP layers,
resulting in an efficient fully-MoE "SwitchAll" Transformer model. Our code is
public.

---

## 2. [FreeInit: Bridging Initialization Gap in Video Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07537)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07537](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07537)

**Authors**: Tianxing Wu, Chenyang Si, Yuming Jiang, Ziqi Huang, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tianxingwu/freeinit)

### Abstract

Though diffusion-based video generation has witnessed rapid progress, the
inference results of existing models still exhibit unsatisfactory temporal
consistency and unnatural dynamics. In this paper, we delve deep into the noise
initialization of video diffusion models, and discover an implicit
training-inference gap that attributes to the unsatisfactory inference quality.
Our key findings are: 1) the spatial-temporal frequency distribution of the
initial latent at inference is intrinsically different from that for training,
and 2) the denoising process is significantly influenced by the low-frequency
components of the initial noise. Motivated by these observations, we propose a
concise yet effective inference sampling strategy, FreeInit, which
significantly improves temporal consistency of videos generated by diffusion
models. Through iteratively refining the spatial-temporal low-frequency
components of the initial latent during inference, FreeInit is able to
compensate the initialization gap between training and inference, thus
effectively improving the subject appearance and temporal consistency of
generation results. Extensive experiments demonstrate that FreeInit
consistently enhances the generation results of various text-to-video
generation models without additional training.

---

## 3. [DiffMorpher: Unleashing the Capability of Diffusion Models for Image
  Morphing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07409)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07409](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07409)

**Authors**: Kaiwen Zhang, Yifan Zhou, Xudong Xu, Xingang Pan, Bo Dai

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kevin-thu/diffmorpher)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have achieved remarkable image generation quality surpassing
previous generative models. However, a notable limitation of diffusion models,
in comparison to GANs, is their difficulty in smoothly interpolating between
two image samples, due to their highly unstructured latent space. Such a smooth
interpolation is intriguing as it naturally serves as a solution for the image
morphing task with many applications. In this work, we present DiffMorpher, the
first approach enabling smooth and natural image interpolation using diffusion
models. Our key idea is to capture the semantics of the two images by fitting
two LoRAs to them respectively, and interpolate between both the LoRA
parameters and the latent noises to ensure a smooth semantic transition, where
correspondence automatically emerges without the need for annotation. In
addition, we propose an attention interpolation and injection technique and a
new sampling schedule to further enhance the smoothness between consecutive
images. Extensive experiments demonstrate that DiffMorpher achieves starkly
better image morphing effects than previous methods across a variety of object
categories, bridging a critical functional gap that distinguished diffusion
models from GANs.

---

## 4. [VILA: On Pre-training for Visual Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07533)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07533](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07533)

**Authors**: Ji Lin, Hongxu Yin, Wei Ping, Yao Lu, Pavlo Molchanov, Andrew Tao, Huizi Mao, Jan Kautz, Mohammad Shoeybi, Song Han

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mit-han-lab/llm-awq)

### Abstract

Visual language models (VLMs) rapidly progressed with the recent success of
large language models. There have been growing efforts on visual instruction
tuning to extend the LLM with visual inputs, but lacks an in-depth study of the
visual language pre-training process, where the model learns to perform joint
modeling on both modalities. In this work, we examine the design options for
VLM pre-training by augmenting LLM towards VLM through step-by-step
controllable comparisons. We introduce three main findings: (1) freezing LLMs
during pre-training can achieve decent zero-shot performance, but lack
in-context learning capability, which requires unfreezing the LLM; (2)
interleaved pre-training data is beneficial whereas image-text pairs alone are
not optimal; (3) re-blending text-only instruction data to image-text data
during instruction fine-tuning not only remedies the degradation of text-only
tasks, but also boosts VLM task accuracy. With an enhanced pre-training recipe
we build VILA, a Visual Language model family that consistently outperforms the
state-of-the-art models, e.g., LLaVA-1.5, across main benchmarks without bells
and whistles. Multi-modal pre-training also helps unveil appealing properties
of VILA, including multi-image reasoning, enhanced in-context learning, and
better world knowledge.

---

## 5. [FreeControl: Training-Free Spatial Control of Any Text-to-Image
  Diffusion Model with Any Condition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07536)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07536](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07536)

**Authors**: Sicheng Mo, Fangzhou Mu, Kuan Heng Lin, Yanli Liu, Bochen Guan, Yin Li, Bolei Zhou

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Recent approaches such as ControlNet offer users fine-grained spatial control
over text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models. However, auxiliary modules have to
be trained for each type of spatial condition, model architecture, and
checkpoint, putting them at odds with the diverse intents and preferences a
human designer would like to convey to the AI models during the content
creation process. In this work, we present FreeControl, a training-free
approach for controllable T2I generation that supports multiple conditions,
architectures, and checkpoints simultaneously. FreeControl designs structure
guidance to facilitate the structure alignment with a guidance image, and
appearance guidance to enable the appearance sharing between images generated
using the same seed. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments
demonstrate the superior performance of FreeControl across a variety of
pre-trained T2I models. In particular, FreeControl facilitates convenient
training-free control over many different architectures and checkpoints, allows
the challenging input conditions on which most of the existing training-free
methods fail, and achieves competitive synthesis quality with training-based
approaches.

---

## 6. [PromptBench: A Unified Library for Evaluation of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07910)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07910](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07910)

**Authors**: Kaijie Zhu, Qinlin Zhao, Hao Chen, Jindong Wang, Xing Xie

**Published**: 2023-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/promptbench)

### Abstract

The evaluation of large language models (LLMs) is crucial to assess their
performance and mitigate potential security risks. In this paper, we introduce
PromptBench, a unified library to evaluate LLMs. It consists of several key
components that are easily used and extended by researchers: prompt
construction, prompt engineering, dataset and model loading, adversarial prompt
attack, dynamic evaluation protocols, and analysis tools. PromptBench is
designed to be an open, general, and flexible codebase for research purposes
that can facilitate original study in creating new benchmarks, deploying
downstream applications, and designing new evaluation protocols. The code is
available at: https://github.com/microsoft/promptbench and will be continuously
supported.

---

## 7. [Foundation Models in Robotics: Applications, Challenges, and the Future](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07843)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07843](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07843)

**Authors**: Roya Firoozi, Johnathan Tucker, Stephen Tian, Anirudha Majumdar, Jiankai Sun, Weiyu Liu, Yuke Zhu, Shuran Song, Ashish Kapoor, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Danny Driess, Jiajun Wu, Cewu Lu, Mac Schwager

**Published**: 2023-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/robotics-survey/awesome-robotics-foundation-models)

### Abstract

We survey applications of pretrained foundation models in robotics.
Traditional deep learning models in robotics are trained on small datasets
tailored for specific tasks, which limits their adaptability across diverse
applications. In contrast, foundation models pretrained on internet-scale data
appear to have superior generalization capabilities, and in some instances
display an emergent ability to find zero-shot solutions to problems that are
not present in the training data. Foundation models may hold the potential to
enhance various components of the robot autonomy stack, from perception to
decision-making and control. For example, large language models can generate
code or provide common sense reasoning, while vision-language models enable
open-vocabulary visual recognition. However, significant open research
challenges remain, particularly around the scarcity of robot-relevant training
data, safety guarantees and uncertainty quantification, and real-time
execution. In this survey, we study recent papers that have used or built
foundation models to solve robotics problems. We explore how foundation models
contribute to improving robot capabilities in the domains of perception,
decision-making, and control. We discuss the challenges hindering the adoption
of foundation models in robot autonomy and provide opportunities and potential
pathways for future advancements. The GitHub project corresponding to this
paper (Preliminary release. We are committed to further enhancing and updating
this work to ensure its quality and relevance) can be found here:
https://github.com/robotics-survey/Awesome-Robotics-Foundation-Models

---

## 8. [Rethinking Compression: Reduced Order Modelling of Latent Features in
  Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07046)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07046](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07046)

**Authors**: Arnav Chavan, Nahush Lele, Deepak Gupta

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/transmuteai/trailmet)

### Abstract

Due to the substantial scale of Large Language Models (LLMs), the direct
application of conventional compression methodologies proves impractical. The
computational demands associated with even minimal gradient updates present
challenges, particularly on consumer-grade hardware. This paper introduces an
innovative approach for the parametric and practical compression of LLMs based
on reduced order modelling, which entails low-rank decomposition within the
feature space and re-parameterization in the weight space. Notably, this
compression technique operates in a layer-wise manner, obviating the need for a
GPU device and enabling the compression of billion-scale models within
stringent constraints of both memory and time. Our method represents a
significant advancement in model compression by leveraging matrix
decomposition, demonstrating superior efficacy compared to the prevailing
state-of-the-art structured pruning method.

---

## 9. [Alignment for Honesty](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07000)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07000](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07000)

**Authors**: Yuqing Yang, Ethan Chern, Xipeng Qiu, Graham Neubig, Pengfei Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gair-nlp/alignment-for-honesty)

### Abstract

Recent research has made significant strides in applying alignment techniques
to enhance the helpfulness and harmlessness of large language models (LLMs) in
accordance with human intentions. In this paper, we argue for the importance of
alignment for honesty, ensuring that LLMs proactively refuse to answer
questions when they lack knowledge, while still not being overly conservative.
However, a pivotal aspect of alignment for honesty involves discerning the
limits of an LLM's knowledge, which is far from straightforward. This challenge
demands comprehensive solutions in terms of metric development, benchmark
creation, and training methodologies. In this paper, we address these
challenges by first establishing a precise problem definition and defining
``honesty'' inspired by the Analects of Confucius. This serves as a cornerstone
for developing metrics that effectively measure an LLM's honesty by quantifying
its progress post-alignment. Furthermore, we introduce a flexible training
framework which is further instantiated by several efficient fine-tuning
techniques that emphasize honesty without sacrificing performance on other
tasks. Our extensive experiments reveal that these aligned models show a marked
increase in honesty, as indicated by our proposed metrics. We open-source a
wealth of resources to facilitate future research at
https://github.com/GAIR-NLP/alignment-for-honesty, including honesty-aligned
models, training and evaluation datasets for honesty alignment, concept
glossary, as well as all relevant source code.

---

## 10. [Steering Llama 2 via Contrastive Activation Addition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06681)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06681](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06681)

**Authors**: Nina Rimsky, Nick Gabrieli, Julian Schulz, Meg Tong, Evan Hubinger, Alexander Matt Turner

**Published**: 2023-12-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wusche1/caa_hallucination)

### Abstract

We introduce Contrastive Activation Addition (CAA), an innovative method for
steering language models by modifying activations during their forward passes.
CAA computes ``steering vectors'' by averaging the difference in residual
stream activations between pairs of positive and negative examples of a
particular behavior such as factual versus hallucinatory responses. During
inference, these steering vectors are added at all token positions after the
user's prompt with either a positive or negative coefficient, allowing precise
control over the degree of the targeted behavior. We evaluate CAA's
effectiveness on Llama 2 Chat using both multiple-choice behavioral question
datasets and open-ended generation tasks. We demonstrate that CAA significantly
alters model behavior, outperforms traditional methods like finetuning and
few-shot prompting, and minimally reduces capabilities. Moreover, by employing
various activation space interpretation methods, we gain deeper insights into
CAA's mechanisms. CAA both accurately steers model outputs and also sheds light
on how high-level concepts are represented in Large Language Models (LLMs).

---

## 11. [COLMAP-Free 3D Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07504)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07504](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07504)

**Authors**: Yang Fu, Sifei Liu, Amey Kulkarni, Jan Kautz, Alexei A. Efros, Xiaolong Wang

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NVlabs/CF-3DGS)

### Abstract

While neural rendering has led to impressive advances in scene reconstruction
and novel view synthesis, it relies heavily on accurately pre-computed camera
poses. To relax this constraint, multiple efforts have been made to train
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) without pre-processed camera poses. However, the
implicit representations of NeRFs provide extra challenges to optimize the 3D
structure and camera poses at the same time. On the other hand, the recently
proposed 3D Gaussian Splatting provides new opportunities given its explicit
point cloud representations. This paper leverages both the explicit geometric
representation and the continuity of the input video stream to perform novel
view synthesis without any SfM preprocessing. We process the input frames in a
sequential manner and progressively grow the 3D Gaussians set by taking one
input frame at a time, without the need to pre-compute the camera poses. Our
method significantly improves over previous approaches in view synthesis and
camera pose estimation under large motion changes. Our project page is
https://oasisyang.github.io/colmap-free-3dgs

---

## 12. [Honeybee: Locality-enhanced Projector for Multimodal LLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06742)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06742](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06742)

**Authors**: Junbum Cha, Wooyoung Kang, Jonghwan Mun, Byungseok Roh

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kakaobrain/honeybee)

### Abstract

In Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), a visual projector plays a
crucial role in bridging pre-trained vision encoders with LLMs, enabling
profound visual understanding while harnessing the LLMs' robust capabilities.
Despite the importance of the visual projector, it has been relatively less
explored. In this study, we first identify two essential projector properties:
(i) flexibility in managing the number of visual tokens, crucial for MLLMs'
overall efficiency, and (ii) preservation of local context from visual
features, vital for spatial understanding. Based on these findings, we propose
a novel projector design that is both flexible and locality-enhanced,
effectively satisfying the two desirable properties. Additionally, we present
comprehensive strategies to effectively utilize multiple and multifaceted
instruction datasets. Through extensive experiments, we examine the impact of
individual design choices. Finally, our proposed MLLM, Honeybee, remarkably
outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods across various benchmarks,
including MME, MMBench, SEED-Bench, and LLaVA-Bench, achieving significantly
higher efficiency. Code and models are available at
https://github.com/kakaobrain/honeybee.

---

## 13. [Interfacing Foundation Models' Embeddings](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07532)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07532](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07532)

**Authors**: Xueyan Zou, Linjie Li, Jianfeng Wang, Jianwei Yang, Mingyu Ding, Zhengyuan Yang, Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Shilong Liu, Arul Aravinthan, Yong Jae Lee, Lijuan Wang

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ux-decoder/find)

### Abstract

We present FIND, a generalized interface for aligning foundation models'
embeddings. As shown in teaser figure, a lightweight transformer interface
without tuning any foundation model weights is enough for a unified image
(segmentation) and dataset-level (retrieval) understanding. The proposed
interface has the following favorable attributes: (1) Generalizable. It applies
to various tasks spanning retrieval, segmentation, etc., under the
same architecture and weights. (2) Prototypable. Different tasks are able to be
implemented through prototyping attention masks and embedding types. (3)
Extendable. The proposed interface is adaptive to new tasks, and new models.
(4) Interleavable. With the benefit of multi-task multi-modal training, the
proposed interface creates an interleaved shared embedding space. In light of
the interleaved embedding space, we introduce the FIND-Bench, which introduces
new training and evaluation annotations to the COCO dataset for interleave
segmentation and retrieval. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance
on FIND-Bench and competitive performance on standard retrieval and
segmentation settings. The training, evaluation, and demo code as well as the
dataset have been released at https://github.com/UX-Decoder/FIND.

---

## 14. [CCM: Adding Conditional Controls to Text-to-Image Consistency Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06971)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06971](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06971)

**Authors**: Jie Xiao, Kai Zhu, Han Zhang, Zhiheng Liu, Yujun Shen, Yu Liu, Xueyang Fu, Zheng-Jun Zha

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Consistency Models (CMs) have showed a promise in creating visual content
efficiently and with high quality. However, the way to add new conditional
controls to the pretrained CMs has not been explored. In this technical report,
we consider alternative strategies for adding ControlNet-like conditional
control to CMs and present three significant findings. 1) ControlNet trained
for diffusion models (DMs) can be directly applied to CMs for high-level
semantic controls but struggles with low-level detail and realism control. 2)
CMs serve as an independent class of generative models, based on which
ControlNet can be trained from scratch using Consistency Training proposed by
Song et al. 3) A lightweight adapter can be jointly optimized under multiple
conditions through Consistency Training, allowing for the swift transfer of
DMs-based ControlNet to CMs. We study these three solutions across various
conditional controls, including edge, depth, human pose, low-resolution image
and masked image with text-to-image latent consistency models.

---

## 15. [PEEKABOO: Interactive Video Generation via Masked-Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07509)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07509](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07509)

**Authors**: Yash Jain, Anshul Nasery, Vibhav Vineet, Harkirat Behl

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/peekaboo)

### Abstract

Recently there has been a lot of progress in text-to-video generation, with
state-of-the-art models being capable of generating high quality, realistic
videos. However, these models lack the capability for users to interactively
control and generate videos, which can potentially unlock new areas of
application. As a first step towards this goal, we tackle the problem of
endowing diffusion-based video generation models with interactive
spatio-temporal control over their output. To this end, we take inspiration
from the recent advances in segmentation literature to propose a novel
spatio-temporal masked attention module - Peekaboo. This module is a
training-free, no-inference-overhead addition to off-the-shelf video generation
models which enables spatio-temporal control. We also propose an evaluation
benchmark for the interactive video generation task. Through extensive
qualitative and quantitative evaluation, we establish that Peekaboo enables
control video generation and even obtains a gain of upto 3.8x in mIoU over
baseline models.

---

## 16. [How Well Does GPT-4V(ision) Adapt to Distribution Shifts? A Preliminary
  Investigation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07424)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07424](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07424)

**Authors**: Zhongyi Han, Guanglin Zhou, Rundong He, Jindong Wang, Xing Xie, Tailin Wu, Yilong Yin, Salman Khan, Lina Yao, Tongliang Liu, Kun Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jameszhou-gl/gpt-4v-distribution-shift)

### Abstract

In machine learning, generalization against distribution shifts -- where
deployment conditions diverge from the training scenarios -- is crucial,
particularly in fields like climate modeling, biomedicine, and autonomous
driving. The emergence of foundation models, distinguished by their extensive
pretraining and task versatility, has led to an increased interest in their
adaptability to distribution shifts. GPT-4V(ision) acts as the most advanced
publicly accessible multimodal foundation model, with extensive applications
across various domains, including anomaly detection, video understanding, image
generation, and medical diagnosis. However, its robustness against data
distributions remains largely underexplored. Addressing this gap, this study
rigorously evaluates GPT-4V's adaptability and generalization capabilities in
dynamic environments, benchmarking against prominent models like CLIP and
LLaVA. We delve into GPT-4V's zero-shot generalization across 13 diverse
datasets spanning natural, medical, and molecular domains. We further
investigate its adaptability to controlled data perturbations and examine the
efficacy of in-context learning as a tool to enhance its adaptation. Our
findings delineate GPT-4V's capability boundaries in distribution shifts,
shedding light on its strengths and limitations across various scenarios.
Importantly, this investigation contributes to our understanding of how AI
foundation models generalize to distribution shifts, offering pivotal insights
into their adaptability and robustness. Code is publicly available at
https://github.com/jameszhou-gl/gpt-4v-distribution-shift.

---

## 17. [Fast Training of Diffusion Transformer with Extreme Masking for 3D Point
  Clouds Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07231)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07231](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07231)

**Authors**: Enze Xie, Yue Wu, Junsong Chen, Matthias Nießner, Zhenguo Li

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Diffusion Transformers have recently shown remarkable effectiveness in
generating high-quality 3D point clouds. However, training voxel-based
diffusion models for high-resolution 3D voxels remains prohibitively expensive
due to the cubic complexity of attention operators, which arises from the
additional dimension of voxels. Motivated by the inherent redundancy of 3D
compared to 2D, we propose FastDiT-3D, a novel masked diffusion transformer
tailored for efficient 3D point cloud generation, which greatly reduces
training costs. Specifically, we draw inspiration from masked autoencoders to
dynamically operate the denoising process on masked voxelized point clouds. We
also propose a novel voxel-aware masking strategy to adaptively aggregate
background/foreground information from voxelized point clouds. Our method
achieves state-of-the-art performance with an extreme masking ratio of nearly
99%. Moreover, to improve multi-category 3D generation, we introduce
Mixture-of-Expert (MoE) in 3D diffusion model. Each category can learn a
distinct diffusion path with different experts, relieving gradient conflict.
Experimental results on the ShapeNet dataset demonstrate that our method
achieves state-of-the-art high-fidelity and diverse 3D point cloud generation
performance. Our FastDiT-3D improves 1-Nearest Neighbor Accuracy and Coverage
metrics when generating 128-resolution voxel point clouds, using only 6.5% of
the original training cost.

---

## 18. ["I Want It That Way": Enabling Interactive Decision Support Using Large
  Language Models and Constraint Programming](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06908)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06908](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06908)

**Authors**: Connor Lawless, Jakob Schoeffer, Lindy Le, Kael Rowan, Shilad Sen, Cristina St. Hill, Jina Suh, Bahar Sarrafzadeh

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

A critical factor in the success of decision support systems is the accurate
modeling of user preferences. Psychology research has demonstrated that users
often develop their preferences during the elicitation process, highlighting
the pivotal role of system-user interaction in developing personalized systems.
This paper introduces a novel approach, combining Large Language Models (LLMs)
with Constraint Programming to facilitate interactive decision support. We
study this hybrid framework through the lens of meeting scheduling, a
time-consuming daily activity faced by a multitude of information workers. We
conduct three studies to evaluate the novel framework, including a diary study
(n=64) to characterize contextual scheduling preferences, a quantitative
evaluation of the system's performance, and a user study (n=10) with a
prototype system. Our work highlights the potential for a hybrid LLM and
optimization approach for iterative preference elicitation and design
considerations for building systems that support human-system collaborative
decision-making processes.

---
