# Daily Papers - 2023-12-20

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-20)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [LLM in a flash: Efficient Large Language Model Inference with Limited
  Memory](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.11514)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.11514](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11514)

**Authors**: Iman Mirzadeh, Dmitry Belenko, Karen Khatamifard, Minsik Cho, Carlo C Del Mundo, Mohammad Rastegari, Mehrdad Farajtabar

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 260

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are central to modern natural language
processing, delivering exceptional performance in various tasks. However, their
intensive computational and memory requirements present challenges, especially
for devices with limited DRAM capacity. This paper tackles the challenge of
efficiently running LLMs that exceed the available DRAM capacity by storing the
model parameters on flash memory but bringing them on demand to DRAM. Our
method involves constructing an inference cost model that harmonizes with the
flash memory behavior, guiding us to optimize in two critical areas: reducing
the volume of data transferred from flash and reading data in larger, more
contiguous chunks. Within this flash memory-informed framework, we introduce
two principal techniques. First, "windowing'" strategically reduces data
transfer by reusing previously activated neurons, and second, "row-column
bundling", tailored to the sequential data access strengths of flash memory,
increases the size of data chunks read from flash memory. These methods
collectively enable running models up to twice the size of the available DRAM,
with a 4-5x and 20-25x increase in inference speed compared to naive loading
approaches in CPU and GPU, respectively. Our integration of sparsity awareness,
context-adaptive loading, and a hardware-oriented design paves the way for
effective inference of LLMs on devices with limited memory.

---

## 2. [StarVector: Generating Scalable Vector Graphics Code from Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.11556)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.11556](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11556)

**Authors**: Juan A. Rodriguez, Shubham Agarwal, Issam H. Laradji, Pau Rodriguez, David Vazquez, Christopher Pal, Marco Pedersoli

**Published**: 2023-12-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/visioncortex/vtracer)

### Abstract

Scalable Vector Graphics (SVGs) have become integral in modern image
rendering applications due to their infinite scalability in resolution,
versatile usability, and editing capabilities. SVGs are particularly popular in
the fields of web development and graphic design. Existing approaches for SVG
modeling using deep learning often struggle with generating complex SVGs and
are restricted to simpler ones that require extensive processing and
simplification. This paper introduces StarVector, a multimodal SVG generation
model that effectively integrates Code Generation Large Language Models
(CodeLLMs) and vision models. Our approach utilizes a CLIP image encoder to
extract visual representations from pixel-based images, which are then
transformed into visual tokens via an adapter module. These visual tokens are
pre-pended to the SVG token embeddings, and the sequence is modeled by the
StarCoder model using next-token prediction, effectively learning to align the
visual and code tokens. This enables StarVector to generate unrestricted SVGs
that accurately represent pixel images. To evaluate StarVector's performance,
we present SVG-Bench, a comprehensive benchmark for evaluating SVG methods
across multiple datasets and relevant metrics. Within this benchmark, we
introduce novel datasets including SVG-Stack, a large-scale dataset of
real-world SVG examples, and use it to pre-train StarVector as a large
foundation model for SVGs. Our results demonstrate significant enhancements in
visual quality and complexity handling over current methods, marking a notable
advancement in SVG generation technology. Code and models:
https://github.com/joanrod/star-vector

---

## 3. [3D-LFM: Lifting Foundation Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.11894)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.11894](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11894)

**Authors**: Mosam Dabhi, Laszlo A. Jeni, Simon Lucey

**Published**: 2023-12-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mosamdabhi/3dlfm)

### Abstract

The lifting of 3D structure and camera from 2D landmarks is at the
cornerstone of the entire discipline of computer vision. Traditional methods
have been confined to specific rigid objects, such as those in
Perspective-n-Point (PnP) problems, but deep learning has expanded our
capability to reconstruct a wide range of object classes (e.g. C3PDO and PAUL)
with resilience to noise, occlusions, and perspective distortions. All these
techniques, however, have been limited by the fundamental need to establish
correspondences across the 3D training data -- significantly limiting their
utility to applications where one has an abundance of "in-correspondence" 3D
data. Our approach harnesses the inherent permutation equivariance of
transformers to manage varying number of points per 3D data instance,
withstands occlusions, and generalizes to unseen categories. We demonstrate
state of the art performance across 2D-3D lifting task benchmarks. Since our
approach can be trained across such a broad class of structures we refer to it
simply as a 3D Lifting Foundation Model (3D-LFM) -- the first of its kind.

---

## 4. [Jack of All Tasks, Master of Many: Designing General-purpose
  Coarse-to-Fine Vision-Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.12423)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.12423](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.12423)

**Authors**: Shraman Pramanick, Guangxing Han, Rui Hou, Sayan Nag, Ser-Nam Lim, Nicolas Ballas, Qifan Wang, Rama Chellappa, Amjad Almahairi

**Published**: 2023-12-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

The ability of large language models (LLMs) to process visual inputs has
given rise to general-purpose vision systems, unifying various vision-language
(VL) tasks by instruction tuning. However, due to the enormous diversity in
input-output formats in the vision domain, existing general-purpose models fail
to successfully integrate segmentation and multi-image inputs with coarse-level
tasks into a single framework. In this work, we introduce VistaLLM, a powerful
visual system that addresses coarse- and fine-grained VL tasks over single and
multiple input images using a unified framework. VistaLLM utilizes an
instruction-guided image tokenizer that filters global embeddings using task
descriptions to extract compressed and refined features from numerous images.
Moreover, VistaLLM employs a gradient-aware adaptive sampling technique to
represent binary segmentation masks as sequences, significantly improving over
previously used uniform sampling. To bolster the desired capability of
VistaLLM, we curate CoinIt, a comprehensive coarse-to-fine instruction tuning
dataset with 6.8M samples. We also address the lack of multi-image grounding
datasets by introducing a novel task, AttCoSeg (Attribute-level
Co-Segmentation), which boosts the model's reasoning and grounding capability
over multiple input images. Extensive experiments on a wide range of V- and VL
tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of VistaLLM by achieving consistent
state-of-the-art performance over strong baselines across all downstream tasks.
Our project page can be found at https://shramanpramanick.github.io/VistaLLM/.

---

## 5. [HAAR: Text-Conditioned Generative Model of 3D Strand-based Human
  Hairstyles](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.11666)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.11666](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11666)

**Authors**: Vanessa Sklyarova, Egor Zakharov, Otmar Hilliges, Michael J. Black, Justus Thies

**Published**: 2023-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Vanessik/HAAR)

### Abstract

We present HAAR, a new strand-based generative model for 3D human hairstyles.
Specifically, based on textual inputs, HAAR produces 3D hairstyles that could
be used as production-level assets in modern computer graphics engines. Current
AI-based generative models take advantage of powerful 2D priors to reconstruct
3D content in the form of point clouds, meshes, or volumetric functions.
However, by using the 2D priors, they are intrinsically limited to only
recovering the visual parts. Highly occluded hair structures can not be
reconstructed with those methods, and they only model the ''outer shell'',
which is not ready to be used in physics-based rendering or simulation
pipelines. In contrast, we propose a first text-guided generative method that
uses 3D hair strands as an underlying representation. Leveraging 2D visual
question-answering (VQA) systems, we automatically annotate synthetic hair
models that are generated from a small set of artist-created hairstyles. This
allows us to train a latent diffusion model that operates in a common hairstyle
UV space. In qualitative and quantitative studies, we demonstrate the
capabilities of the proposed model and compare it to existing hairstyle
generation approaches.

---

## 6. [Tracking Any Object Amodally](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.12433)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.12433](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.12433)

**Authors**: Cheng-Yen Hsieh, Tarasha Khurana, Achal Dave, Deva Ramanan

**Published**: 2023-12-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/WesleyHsieh0806/TAO-Amodal)

### Abstract

Amodal perception, the ability to comprehend complete object structures from
partial visibility, is a fundamental skill, even for infants. Its significance
extends to applications like autonomous driving, where a clear understanding of
heavily occluded objects is essential. However, modern detection and tracking
algorithms often overlook this critical capability, perhaps due to the
prevalence of modal annotations in most datasets. To address the scarcity of
amodal data, we introduce the TAO-Amodal benchmark, featuring 880 diverse
categories in thousands of video sequences. Our dataset includes amodal and
modal bounding boxes for visible and occluded objects, including objects that
are partially out-of-frame. To enhance amodal tracking with object permanence,
we leverage a lightweight plug-in module, the amodal expander, to transform
standard, modal trackers into amodal ones through fine-tuning on a few hundred
video sequences with data augmentation. We achieve a 3.3\% and 1.6\%
improvement on the detection and tracking of occluded objects on TAO-Amodal.
When evaluated on people, our method produces dramatic improvements of 2x
compared to state-of-the-art modal baselines.

---

## 7. [MixRT: Mixed Neural Representations For Real-Time NeRF Rendering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.11841)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.11841](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11841)

**Authors**: Chaojian Li, Bichen Wu, Peter Vajda, Yingyan, Lin

**Published**: 2023-12-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) has emerged as a leading technique for novel
view synthesis, owing to its impressive photorealistic reconstruction and
rendering capability. Nevertheless, achieving real-time NeRF rendering in
large-scale scenes has presented challenges, often leading to the adoption of
either intricate baked mesh representations with a substantial number of
triangles or resource-intensive ray marching in baked representations. We
challenge these conventions, observing that high-quality geometry, represented
by meshes with substantial triangles, is not necessary for achieving
photorealistic rendering quality. Consequently, we propose MixRT, a novel NeRF
representation that includes a low-quality mesh, a view-dependent displacement
map, and a compressed NeRF model. This design effectively harnesses the
capabilities of existing graphics hardware, thus enabling real-time NeRF
rendering on edge devices. Leveraging a highly-optimized WebGL-based rendering
framework, our proposed MixRT attains real-time rendering speeds on edge
devices (over 30 FPS at a resolution of 1280 x 720 on a MacBook M1 Pro laptop),
better rendering quality (0.2 PSNR higher in indoor scenes of the Unbounded-360
datasets), and a smaller storage size (less than 80% compared to
state-of-the-art methods).

---

## 8. [FastSR-NeRF: Improving NeRF Efficiency on Consumer Devices with A Simple
  Super-Resolution Pipeline](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.11537)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.11537](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11537)

**Authors**: Chien-Yu Lin, Qichen Fu, Thomas Merth, Karren Yang, Anurag Ranjan

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Super-resolution (SR) techniques have recently been proposed to upscale the
outputs of neural radiance fields (NeRF) and generate high-quality images with
enhanced inference speeds. However, existing NeRF+SR methods increase training
overhead by using extra input features, loss functions, and/or expensive
training procedures such as knowledge distillation. In this paper, we aim to
leverage SR for efficiency gains without costly training or architectural
changes. Specifically, we build a simple NeRF+SR pipeline that directly
combines existing modules, and we propose a lightweight augmentation technique,
random patch sampling, for training. Compared to existing NeRF+SR methods, our
pipeline mitigates the SR computing overhead and can be trained up to 23x
faster, making it feasible to run on consumer devices such as the Apple
MacBook. Experiments show our pipeline can upscale NeRF outputs by 2-4x while
maintaining high quality, increasing inference speeds by up to 18x on an NVIDIA
V100 GPU and 12.8x on an M1 Pro chip. We conclude that SR can be a simple but
effective technique for improving the efficiency of NeRF models for consumer
devices.

---

## 9. [Customize-It-3D: High-Quality 3D Creation from A Single Image Using
  Subject-Specific Knowledge Prior](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.11535)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.11535](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11535)

**Authors**: Nan Huang, Ting Zhang, Yuhui Yuan, Dong Chen, Shanghang Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

In this paper, we present a novel two-stage approach that fully utilizes the
information provided by the reference image to establish a customized knowledge
prior for image-to-3D generation. While previous approaches primarily rely on a
general diffusion prior, which struggles to yield consistent results with the
reference image, we propose a subject-specific and multi-modal diffusion model.
This model not only aids NeRF optimization by considering the shading mode for
improved geometry but also enhances texture from the coarse results to achieve
superior refinement. Both aspects contribute to faithfully aligning the 3D
content with the subject. Extensive experiments showcase the superiority of our
method, Customize-It-3D, outperforming previous works by a substantial margin.
It produces faithful 360-degree reconstructions with impressive visual quality,
making it well-suited for various applications, including text-to-3D creation.

---

## 10. [Text-Conditioned Resampler For Long Form Video Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.11897)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.11897](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11897)

**Authors**: Bruno Korbar, Yongqin Xian, Alessio Tonioni, Andrew Zisserman, Federico Tombari

**Published**: 2023-12-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Videos are highly redundant data source and it is often enough to identify a
few key moments to solve any given task. In this paper, we present a
text-conditioned video resampler (TCR) module that uses a pre-trained and
frozen visual encoder and large language model (LLM) to process long video
sequences for a task. TCR localises relevant visual features from the video
given a text condition and provides them to a LLM to generate a text response.
Due to its lightweight design and use of cross-attention, TCR can process more
than 100 frames at a time allowing the model to use much longer chunks of video
than earlier works. We make the following contributions: (i) we design a
transformer-based sampling architecture that can process long videos
conditioned on a task, together with a training method that enables it to
bridge pre-trained visual and language models; (ii) we empirically validate its
efficacy on a wide variety of evaluation tasks, and set a new state-of-the-art
on NextQA, EgoSchema, and the EGO4D-LTA challenge; and (iii) we determine tasks
which require longer video contexts and that can thus be used effectively for
further evaluation of long-range video models.

---

## 11. [TIP: Text-Driven Image Processing with Semantic and Restoration
  Instructions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.11595)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.11595](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11595)

**Authors**: Chenyang Qi, Zhengzhong Tu, Keren Ye, Mauricio Delbracio, Peyman Milanfar, Qifeng Chen, Hossein Talebi

**Published**: 2023-12-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Text-driven diffusion models have become increasingly popular for various
image editing tasks, including inpainting, stylization, and object replacement.
However, it still remains an open research problem to adopt this
language-vision paradigm for more fine-level image processing tasks, such as
denoising, super-resolution, deblurring, and compression artifact removal. In
this paper, we develop TIP, a Text-driven Image Processing framework that
leverages natural language as a user-friendly interface to control the image
restoration process. We consider the capacity of text information in two
dimensions. First, we use content-related prompts to enhance the semantic
alignment, effectively alleviating identity ambiguity in the restoration
outcomes. Second, our approach is the first framework that supports fine-level
instruction through language-based quantitative specification of the
restoration strength, without the need for explicit task-specific design. In
addition, we introduce a novel fusion mechanism that augments the existing
ControlNet architecture by learning to rescale the generative prior, thereby
achieving better restoration fidelity. Our extensive experiments demonstrate
the superior restoration performance of TIP compared to the state of the arts,
alongside offering the flexibility of text-based control over the restoration
effects.

---

## 12. [Topic-VQ-VAE: Leveraging Latent Codebooks for Flexible Topic-Guided
  Document Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.11532)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.11532](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11532)

**Authors**: YoungJoon Yoo, Jongwon Choi

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/clovaai/tvq-vae)

### Abstract

This paper introduces a novel approach for topic modeling utilizing latent
codebooks from Vector-Quantized Variational Auto-Encoder~(VQ-VAE), discretely
encapsulating the rich information of the pre-trained embeddings such as the
pre-trained language model. From the novel interpretation of the latent
codebooks and embeddings as conceptual bag-of-words, we propose a new
generative topic model called Topic-VQ-VAE~(TVQ-VAE) which inversely generates
the original documents related to the respective latent codebook. The TVQ-VAE
can visualize the topics with various generative distributions including the
traditional BoW distribution and the autoregressive image generation. Our
experimental results on document analysis and image generation demonstrate that
TVQ-VAE effectively captures the topic context which reveals the underlying
structures of the dataset and supports flexible forms of document generation.
Official implementation of the proposed TVQ-VAE is available at
https://github.com/clovaai/TVQ-VAE.

---
