# Daily Papers - 2023-12-18

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-18)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [Amphion: An Open-Source Audio, Music and Speech Generation Toolkit](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09911)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09911](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09911)

**Authors**: Xueyao Zhang, Liumeng Xue, Yuancheng Wang, Yicheng Gu, Xi Chen, Zihao Fang, Haopeng Chen, Lexiao Zou, Chaoren Wang, Jun Han, Kai Chen, Haizhou Li, Zhizheng Wu

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 55

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/open-mmlab/amphion)

### Abstract

Amphion is a toolkit for Audio, Music, and Speech Generation. Its purpose is
to support reproducible research and help junior researchers and engineers get
started in the field of audio, music, and speech generation research and
development. Amphion offers a unique feature: visualizations of classic models
or architectures. We believe that these visualizations are beneficial for
junior researchers and engineers who wish to gain a better understanding of the
model. The North-Star objective of Amphion is to offer a platform for studying
the conversion of any inputs into general audio. Amphion is designed to support
individual generation tasks. In addition to the specific generation tasks,
Amphion also includes several vocoders and evaluation metrics. A vocoder is an
important module for producing high-quality audio signals, while evaluation
metrics are critical for ensuring consistent metrics in generation tasks. In
this paper, we provide a high-level overview of Amphion.

---

## 2. [ReST meets ReAct: Self-Improvement for Multi-Step Reasoning LLM Agent](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.10003)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.10003](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10003)

**Authors**: Renat Aksitov, Sobhan Miryoosefi, Zonglin Li, Daliang Li, Sheila Babayan, Kavya Kopparapu, Zachary Fisher, Ruiqi Guo, Sushant Prakash, Pranesh Srinivasan, Manzil Zaheer, Felix Yu, Sanjiv Kumar

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 44

### Abstract

Answering complex natural language questions often necessitates multi-step
reasoning and integrating external information. Several systems have combined
knowledge retrieval with a large language model (LLM) to answer such questions.
These systems, however, suffer from various failure cases, and we cannot
directly train them end-to-end to fix such failures, as interaction with
external knowledge is non-differentiable. To address these deficiencies, we
define a ReAct-style LLM agent with the ability to reason and act upon external
knowledge. We further refine the agent through a ReST-like method that
iteratively trains on previous trajectories, employing growing-batch
reinforcement learning with AI feedback for continuous self-improvement and
self-distillation. Starting from a prompted large model and after just two
iterations of the algorithm, we can produce a fine-tuned small model that
achieves comparable performance on challenging compositional question-answering
benchmarks with two orders of magnitude fewer parameters.

---

## 3. [DreamTalk: When Expressive Talking Head Generation Meets Diffusion
  Probabilistic Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09767)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09767](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09767)

**Authors**: Yifeng Ma, Shiwei Zhang, Jiayu Wang, Xiang Wang, Yingya Zhang, Zhidong Deng

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ali-vilab/dreamtalk)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have shown remarkable success in a variety of downstream
generative tasks, yet remain under-explored in the important and challenging
expressive talking head generation. In this work, we propose a DreamTalk
framework to fulfill this gap, which employs meticulous design to unlock the
potential of diffusion models in generating expressive talking heads.
Specifically, DreamTalk consists of three crucial components: a denoising
network, a style-aware lip expert, and a style predictor. The diffusion-based
denoising network is able to consistently synthesize high-quality audio-driven
face motions across diverse expressions. To enhance the expressiveness and
accuracy of lip motions, we introduce a style-aware lip expert that can guide
lip-sync while being mindful of the speaking styles. To eliminate the need for
expression reference video or text, an extra diffusion-based style predictor is
utilized to predict the target expression directly from the audio. By this
means, DreamTalk can harness powerful diffusion models to generate expressive
faces effectively and reduce the reliance on expensive style references.
Experimental results demonstrate that DreamTalk is capable of generating
photo-realistic talking faces with diverse speaking styles and achieving
accurate lip motions, surpassing existing state-of-the-art counterparts.

---

## 4. [MobileSAMv2: Faster Segment Anything to Everything](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09579)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09579](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09579)

**Authors**: Chaoning Zhang, Dongshen Han, Sheng Zheng, Jinwoo Choi, Tae-Ho Kim, Choong Seon Hong

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

Segment anything model (SAM) addresses two practical yet challenging
segmentation tasks: segment anything (SegAny), which utilizes a
certain point to predict the mask for a single object of interest, and
segment everything (SegEvery), which predicts the masks for all
objects on the image. What makes SegAny slow for SAM is its heavyweight image
encoder, which has been addressed by MobileSAM via decoupled knowledge
distillation. The efficiency bottleneck of SegEvery with SAM, however, lies in
its mask decoder because it needs to first generate numerous masks with
redundant grid-search prompts and then perform filtering to obtain the final
valid masks. We propose to improve its efficiency by directly generating the
final masks with only valid prompts, which can be obtained through object
discovery. Our proposed approach not only helps reduce the total time on the
mask decoder by at least 16 times but also achieves superior performance.
Specifically, our approach yields an average performance boost of 3.6\% (42.5\%
v.s. 38.9\%) for zero-shot object proposal on the LVIS dataset with
the mask AR@K metric. Qualitative results show that our approach generates
fine-grained masks while avoiding over-segmenting things. This project
targeting faster SegEvery than the original SAM is termed MobileSAMv2 to
differentiate from MobileSAM which targets faster SegAny. Moreover, we
demonstrate that our new prompt sampling is also compatible with the distilled
image encoders in MobileSAM, contributing to a unified framework for efficient
SegAny and SegEvery. The code is available at the same link as MobileSAM
Project
https://github.com/ChaoningZhang/MobileSAM{red{https://github.com/ChaoningZhang/MobileSAM}}.
abstract

---

## 5. [Point Transformer V3: Simpler, Faster, Stronger](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.10035)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.10035](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10035)

**Organization**: Pointcept

**Authors**: Xiaoyang Wu, Li Jiang, Peng-Shuai Wang, Zhijian Liu, Xihui Liu, Yu Qiao, Wanli Ouyang, Tong He, Hengshuang Zhao

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Pointcept/PointTransformerV3)

### Abstract

This paper is not motivated to seek innovation within the attention
mechanism. Instead, it focuses on overcoming the existing trade-offs between
accuracy and efficiency within the context of point cloud processing,
leveraging the power of scale. Drawing inspiration from recent advances in 3D
large-scale representation learning, we recognize that model performance is
more influenced by scale than by intricate design. Therefore, we present Point
Transformer V3 (PTv3), which prioritizes simplicity and efficiency over the
accuracy of certain mechanisms that are minor to the overall performance after
scaling, such as replacing the precise neighbor search by KNN with an efficient
serialized neighbor mapping of point clouds organized with specific patterns.
This principle enables significant scaling, expanding the receptive field from
16 to 1024 points while remaining efficient (a 3x increase in processing speed
and a 10x improvement in memory efficiency compared with its predecessor,
PTv2). PTv3 attains state-of-the-art results on over 20 downstream tasks that
span both indoor and outdoor scenarios. Further enhanced with multi-dataset
joint training, PTv3 pushes these results to a higher level.

---

## 6. [Faster Diffusion: Rethinking the Role of UNet Encoder in Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09608)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09608](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09608)

**Authors**: Senmao Li, Taihang Hu, Fahad Shahbaz Khan, Linxuan Li, Shiqi Yang, Yaxing Wang, Ming-Ming Cheng, Jian Yang

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hutaihang/faster-diffusion)

### Abstract

One of the key components within diffusion models is the UNet for noise
prediction. While several works have explored basic properties of the UNet
decoder, its encoder largely remains unexplored. In this work, we conduct the
first comprehensive study of the UNet encoder. We empirically analyze the
encoder features and provide insights to important questions regarding their
changes at the inference process. In particular, we find that encoder features
change gently, whereas the decoder features exhibit substantial variations
across different time-steps. This finding inspired us to omit the encoder at
certain adjacent time-steps and reuse cyclically the encoder features in the
previous time-steps for the decoder. Further based on this observation, we
introduce a simple yet effective encoder propagation scheme to accelerate the
diffusion sampling for a diverse set of tasks. By benefiting from our
propagation scheme, we are able to perform in parallel the decoder at certain
adjacent time-steps. Additionally, we introduce a prior noise injection method
to improve the texture details in the generated image. Besides the standard
text-to-image task, we also validate our approach on other tasks:
text-to-video, personalized generation and reference-guided generation. Without
utilizing any knowledge distillation technique, our approach accelerates both
the Stable Diffusion (SD) and the DeepFloyd-IF models sampling by 41% and
24% respectively, while maintaining high-quality generation performance. Our
code is available in
https://github.com/hutaiHang/Faster-Diffusion{FasterDiffusion}.

---

## 7. [Extending Context Window of Large Language Models via Semantic
  Compression](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09571)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09571](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09571)

**Authors**: Weizhi Fei, Xueyan Niu, Pingyi Zhou, Lu Hou, Bo Bai, Lei Deng, Wei Han

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Transformer-based Large Language Models (LLMs) often impose limitations on
the length of the text input to ensure the generation of fluent and relevant
responses. This constraint restricts their applicability in scenarios involving
long texts. We propose a novel semantic compression method that enables
generalization to texts that are 6-8 times longer, without incurring
significant computational costs or requiring fine-tuning. Our proposed
framework draws inspiration from source coding in information theory and
employs a pre-trained model to reduce the semantic redundancy of long inputs
before passing them to the LLMs for downstream tasks. Experimental results
demonstrate that our method effectively extends the context window of LLMs
across a range of tasks including question answering, summarization, few-shot
learning, and information retrieval. Furthermore, the proposed semantic
compression method exhibits consistent fluency in text generation while
reducing the associated computational overhead.

---

## 8. [Faithful Persona-based Conversational Dataset Generation with Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.10007)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.10007](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10007)

**Authors**: Pegah Jandaghi, XiangHai Sheng, Xinyi Bai, Jay Pujara, Hakim Sidahmed

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-research-datasets/Synthetic-Persona-Chat)

### Abstract

High-quality conversational datasets are essential for developing AI models
that can communicate with users. One way to foster deeper interactions between
a chatbot and its user is through personas, aspects of the user's character
that provide insights into their personality, motivations, and behaviors.
Training Natural Language Processing (NLP) models on a diverse and
comprehensive persona-based dataset can lead to conversational models that
create a deeper connection with the user, and maintain their engagement. In
this paper, we leverage the power of Large Language Models (LLMs) to create a
large, high-quality conversational dataset from a seed dataset. We propose a
Generator-Critic architecture framework to expand the initial dataset, while
improving the quality of its conversations. The Generator is an LLM prompted to
output conversations. The Critic consists of a mixture of expert LLMs that
control the quality of the generated conversations. These experts select the
best generated conversations, which we then use to improve the Generator. We
release Synthetic-Persona-Chat, consisting of 20k conversations seeded from
Persona-Chat. We evaluate the quality of Synthetic-Persona-Chat and our
generation framework on different dimensions through extensive experiments, and
observe that the losing rate of Synthetic-Persona-Chat against Persona-Chat
during Turing test decreases from 17.2% to 8.8% over three iterations.

---

## 9. [Challenges with unsupervised LLM knowledge discovery](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.10029)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.10029](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10029)

**Authors**: Sebastian Farquhar, Vikrant Varma, Zachary Kenton, Johannes Gasteiger, Vladimir Mikulik, Rohin Shah

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

We show that existing unsupervised methods on large language model (LLM)
activations do not discover knowledge -- instead they seem to discover whatever
feature of the activations is most prominent. The idea behind unsupervised
knowledge elicitation is that knowledge satisfies a consistency structure,
which can be used to discover knowledge. We first prove theoretically that
arbitrary features (not just knowledge) satisfy the consistency structure of a
particular leading unsupervised knowledge-elicitation method,
contrast-consistent search (Burns et al. - arXiv:2212.03827). We then present a
series of experiments showing settings in which unsupervised methods result in
classifiers that do not predict knowledge, but instead predict a different
prominent feature. We conclude that existing unsupervised methods for
discovering latent knowledge are insufficient, and we contribute sanity checks
to apply to evaluating future knowledge elicitation methods. Conceptually, we
hypothesise that the identification issues explored here, e.g. distinguishing a
model's knowledge from that of a simulated character's, will persist for future
unsupervised methods.

---

## 10. [Stable Score Distillation for High-Quality 3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09305)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09305](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09305)

**Authors**: Boshi Tang, Jianan Wang, Zhiyong Wu, Lei Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Score Distillation Sampling (SDS) has exhibited remarkable performance in
conditional 3D content generation. However, a comprehensive understanding of
the SDS formulation is still lacking, hindering the development of 3D
generation. In this work, we present an interpretation of SDS as a combination
of three functional components: mode-disengaging, mode-seeking and
variance-reducing terms, and analyze the properties of each. We show that
problems such as over-smoothness and color-saturation result from the intrinsic
deficiency of the supervision terms and reveal that the variance-reducing term
introduced by SDS is sub-optimal. Additionally, we shed light on the adoption
of large Classifier-Free Guidance (CFG) scale for 3D generation. Based on the
analysis, we propose a simple yet effective approach named Stable Score
Distillation (SSD) which strategically orchestrates each term for high-quality
3D generation. Extensive experiments validate the efficacy of our approach,
demonstrating its ability to generate high-fidelity 3D content without
succumbing to issues such as over-smoothness and over-saturation, even under
low CFG conditions with the most challenging NeRF representation.

---

## 11. [SlimmeRF: Slimmable Radiance Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.10034)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.10034](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10034)

**Authors**: Shiran Yuan, Hao Zhao

**Published**: 2023-12-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/shiran-yuan/slimmerf)

### Abstract

Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) and its variants have recently emerged as
successful methods for novel view synthesis and 3D scene reconstruction.
However, most current NeRF models either achieve high accuracy using large
model sizes, or achieve high memory-efficiency by trading off accuracy. This
limits the applicable scope of any single model, since high-accuracy models
might not fit in low-memory devices, and memory-efficient models might not
satisfy high-quality requirements. To this end, we present SlimmeRF, a model
that allows for instant test-time trade-offs between model size and accuracy
through slimming, thus making the model simultaneously suitable for scenarios
with different computing budgets. We achieve this through a newly proposed
algorithm named Tensorial Rank Incrementation (TRaIn) which increases the rank
of the model's tensorial representation gradually during training. We also
observe that our model allows for more effective trade-offs in sparse-view
scenarios, at times even achieving higher accuracy after being slimmed. We
credit this to the fact that erroneous information such as floaters tend to be
stored in components corresponding to higher ranks. Our implementation is
available at https://github.com/Shiran-Yuan/SlimmeRF.

---

## 12. [Perspectives on the State and Future of Deep Learning - 2023](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09323)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09323](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09323)

**Authors**: Micah Goldblum, Anima Anandkumar, Richard Baraniuk, Tom Goldstein, Kyunghyun Cho, Zachary C Lipton, Melanie Mitchell, Preetum Nakkiran, Max Welling, Andrew Gordon Wilson

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

The goal of this series is to chronicle opinions and issues in the field of
machine learning as they stand today and as they change over time. The plan is
to host this survey periodically until the AI singularity
paperclip-frenzy-driven doomsday, keeping an updated list of topical questions
and interviewing new community members for each edition. In this issue, we
probed people's opinions on interpretable AI, the value of benchmarking in
modern NLP, the state of progress towards understanding deep learning, and the
future of academia.

---
