# Daily Papers - 2023-12-08

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-08)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [PhotoMaker: Customizing Realistic Human Photos via Stacked ID Embedding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04461)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04461](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04461)

**Authors**: Zhen Li, Mingdeng Cao, Xintao Wang, Zhongang Qi, Ming-Ming Cheng, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 62

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/TencentARC/PhotoMaker)

### Abstract

Recent advances in text-to-image generation have made remarkable progress in
synthesizing realistic human photos conditioned on given text prompts. However,
existing personalized generation methods cannot simultaneously satisfy the
requirements of high efficiency, promising identity (ID) fidelity, and flexible
text controllability. In this work, we introduce PhotoMaker, an efficient
personalized text-to-image generation method, which mainly encodes an arbitrary
number of input ID images into a stack ID embedding for preserving ID
information. Such an embedding, serving as a unified ID representation, can not
only encapsulate the characteristics of the same input ID comprehensively, but
also accommodate the characteristics of different IDs for subsequent
integration. This paves the way for more intriguing and practically valuable
applications. Besides, to drive the training of our PhotoMaker, we propose an
ID-oriented data construction pipeline to assemble the training data. Under the
nourishment of the dataset constructed through the proposed pipeline, our
PhotoMaker demonstrates better ID preservation ability than test-time
fine-tuning based methods, yet provides significant speed improvements,
high-quality generation results, strong generalization capabilities, and a wide
range of applications. Our project page is available at
https://photo-maker.github.io/

---

## 2. [Controllable Human-Object Interaction Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.03913)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.03913](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03913)

**Authors**: Jiaman Li, Alexander Clegg, Roozbeh Mottaghi, Jiajun Wu, Xavier Puig, C. Karen Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Synthesizing semantic-aware, long-horizon, human-object interaction is
critical to simulate realistic human behaviors. In this work, we address the
challenging problem of generating synchronized object motion and human motion
guided by language descriptions in 3D scenes. We propose Controllable
Human-Object Interaction Synthesis (CHOIS), an approach that generates object
motion and human motion simultaneously using a conditional diffusion model
given a language description, initial object and human states, and sparse
object waypoints. While language descriptions inform style and intent,
waypoints ground the motion in the scene and can be effectively extracted using
high-level planning methods. Naively applying a diffusion model fails to
predict object motion aligned with the input waypoints and cannot ensure the
realism of interactions that require precise hand-object contact and
appropriate contact grounded by the floor. To overcome these problems, we
introduce an object geometry loss as additional supervision to improve the
matching between generated object motion and input object waypoints. In
addition, we design guidance terms to enforce contact constraints during the
sampling process of the trained diffusion model.

---

## 3. [HyperDreamer: Hyper-Realistic 3D Content Generation and Editing from a
  Single Image](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04543)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04543](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04543)

**Authors**: Tong Wu, Zhibing Li, Xinggang Pan, Jiaqi Wang, Dahua Lin, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

3D content creation from a single image is a long-standing yet highly
desirable task. Recent advances introduce 2D diffusion priors, yielding
reasonable results. However, existing methods are not hyper-realistic enough
for post-generation usage, as users cannot view, render and edit the resulting
3D content from a full range. To address these challenges, we introduce
HyperDreamer with several key designs and appealing properties: 1) Viewable:
360 degree mesh modeling with high-resolution textures enables the creation of
visually compelling 3D models from a full range of observation points. 2)
Renderable: Fine-grained semantic segmentation and data-driven priors are
incorporated as guidance to learn reasonable albedo, roughness, and specular
properties of the materials, enabling semantic-aware arbitrary material
estimation. 3) Editable: For a generated model or their own data, users can
interactively select any region via a few clicks and efficiently edit the
texture with text-based guidance. Extensive experiments demonstrate the
effectiveness of HyperDreamer in modeling region-aware materials with
high-resolution textures and enabling user-friendly editing. We believe that
HyperDreamer holds promise for advancing 3D content creation and finding
applications in various domains.

---

## 4. [AnimateZero: Video Diffusion Models are Zero-Shot Image Animators](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.03793)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.03793](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03793)

**Authors**: Jiwen Yu, Xiaodong Cun, Chenyang Qi, Yong Zhang, Xintao Wang, Ying Shan, Jian Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vvictoryuki/animatezero)

### Abstract

Large-scale text-to-video (T2V) diffusion models have great progress in
recent years in terms of visual quality, motion and temporal consistency.
However, the generation process is still a black box, where all attributes
(e.g., appearance, motion) are learned and generated jointly without precise
control ability other than rough text descriptions. Inspired by image animation
which decouples the video as one specific appearance with the corresponding
motion, we propose AnimateZero to unveil the pre-trained text-to-video
diffusion model, i.e., AnimateDiff, and provide more precise appearance and
motion control abilities for it. For appearance control, we borrow intermediate
latents and their features from the text-to-image (T2I) generation for ensuring
the generated first frame is equal to the given generated image. For temporal
control, we replace the global temporal attention of the original T2V model
with our proposed positional-corrected window attention to ensure other frames
align with the first frame well. Empowered by the proposed methods, AnimateZero
can successfully control the generating progress without further training. As a
zero-shot image animator for given images, AnimateZero also enables multiple
new applications, including interactive video generation and real image
animation. The detailed experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the
proposed method in both T2V and related applications.

---

## 5. [Smooth Diffusion: Crafting Smooth Latent Spaces in Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04410)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04410](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04410)

**Authors**: Jiayi Guo, Xingqian Xu, Yifan Pu, Zanlin Ni, Chaofei Wang, Manushree Vasu, Shiji Song, Gao Huang, Humphrey Shi

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/shi-labs/smooth-diffusion)

### Abstract

Recently, diffusion models have made remarkable progress in text-to-image
(T2I) generation, synthesizing images with high fidelity and diverse contents.
Despite this advancement, latent space smoothness within diffusion models
remains largely unexplored. Smooth latent spaces ensure that a perturbation on
an input latent corresponds to a steady change in the output image. This
property proves beneficial in downstream tasks, including image interpolation,
inversion, and editing. In this work, we expose the non-smoothness of diffusion
latent spaces by observing noticeable visual fluctuations resulting from minor
latent variations. To tackle this issue, we propose Smooth Diffusion, a new
category of diffusion models that can be simultaneously high-performing and
smooth. Specifically, we introduce Step-wise Variation Regularization to
enforce the proportion between the variations of an arbitrary input latent and
that of the output image is a constant at any diffusion training step. In
addition, we devise an interpolation standard deviation (ISTD) metric to
effectively assess the latent space smoothness of a diffusion model. Extensive
quantitative and qualitative experiments demonstrate that Smooth Diffusion
stands out as a more desirable solution not only in T2I generation but also
across various downstream tasks. Smooth Diffusion is implemented as a
plug-and-play Smooth-LoRA to work with various community models. Code is
available at https://github.com/SHI-Labs/Smooth-Diffusion.

---

## 6. [Pearl: A Production-ready Reinforcement Learning Agent](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.03814)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.03814](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03814)

**Authors**: Zheqing Zhu, Rodrigo de Salvo Braz, Jalaj Bhandari, Daniel Jiang, Yi Wan, Yonathan Efroni, Liyuan Wang, Ruiyang Xu, Hongbo Guo, Alex Nikulkov, Dmytro Korenkevych, Urun Dogan, Frank Cheng, Zheng Wu, Wanqiao Xu

**Published**: 2023-12-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/pearl)

### Abstract

Reinforcement Learning (RL) offers a versatile framework for achieving
long-term goals. Its generality allows us to formalize a wide range of problems
that real-world intelligent systems encounter, such as dealing with delayed
rewards, handling partial observability, addressing the exploration and
exploitation dilemma, utilizing offline data to improve online performance, and
ensuring safety constraints are met. Despite considerable progress made by the
RL research community in addressing these issues, existing open-source RL
libraries tend to focus on a narrow portion of the RL solution pipeline,
leaving other aspects largely unattended. This paper introduces Pearl, a
Production-ready RL agent software package explicitly designed to embrace these
challenges in a modular fashion. In addition to presenting preliminary
benchmark results, this paper highlights Pearl's industry adoptions to
demonstrate its readiness for production usage. Pearl is open sourced on Github
at github.com/facebookresearch/pearl and its official website is located at
pearlagent.github.io.

---

## 7. [NeRFiller: Completing Scenes via Generative 3D Inpainting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04560)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04560](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04560)

**Authors**: Ethan Weber, Aleksander Hołyński, Varun Jampani, Saurabh Saxena, Noah Snavely, Abhishek Kar, Angjoo Kanazawa

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

We propose NeRFiller, an approach that completes missing portions of a 3D
capture via generative 3D inpainting using off-the-shelf 2D visual generative
models. Often parts of a captured 3D scene or object are missing due to mesh
reconstruction failures or a lack of observations (e.g., contact regions, such
as the bottom of objects, or hard-to-reach areas). We approach this challenging
3D inpainting problem by leveraging a 2D inpainting diffusion model. We
identify a surprising behavior of these models, where they generate more 3D
consistent inpaints when images form a 2times2 grid, and show how to
generalize this behavior to more than four images. We then present an iterative
framework to distill these inpainted regions into a single consistent 3D scene.
In contrast to related works, we focus on completing scenes rather than
deleting foreground objects, and our approach does not require tight 2D object
masks or text. We compare our approach to relevant baselines adapted to our
setting on a variety of scenes, where NeRFiller creates the most 3D consistent
and plausible scene completions. Our project page is at
https://ethanweber.me/nerfiller.

---

## 8. [GenTron: Delving Deep into Diffusion Transformers for Image and Video
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04557)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04557](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04557)

**Authors**: Shoufa Chen, Mengmeng Xu, Jiawei Ren, Yuren Cong, Sen He, Yanping Xie, Animesh Sinha, Ping Luo, Tao Xiang, Juan-Manuel Perez-Rua

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

In this study, we explore Transformer-based diffusion models for image and
video generation. Despite the dominance of Transformer architectures in various
fields due to their flexibility and scalability, the visual generative domain
primarily utilizes CNN-based U-Net architectures, particularly in
diffusion-based models. We introduce GenTron, a family of Generative models
employing Transformer-based diffusion, to address this gap. Our initial step
was to adapt Diffusion Transformers (DiTs) from class to text conditioning, a
process involving thorough empirical exploration of the conditioning mechanism.
We then scale GenTron from approximately 900M to over 3B parameters, observing
significant improvements in visual quality. Furthermore, we extend GenTron to
text-to-video generation, incorporating novel motion-free guidance to enhance
video quality. In human evaluations against SDXL, GenTron achieves a 51.1% win
rate in visual quality (with a 19.8% draw rate), and a 42.3% win rate in text
alignment (with a 42.9% draw rate). GenTron also excels in the T2I-CompBench,
underscoring its strengths in compositional generation. We believe this work
will provide meaningful insights and serve as a valuable reference for future
research.

---

## 9. [Gen2Det: Generate to Detect](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04566)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04566](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04566)

**Authors**: Saksham Suri, Fanyi Xiao, Animesh Sinha, Sean Chang Culatana, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi, Chenchen Zhu, Abhinav Shrivastava

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Recently diffusion models have shown improvement in synthetic image quality
as well as better control in generation. We motivate and present Gen2Det, a
simple modular pipeline to create synthetic training data for object detection
for free by leveraging state-of-the-art grounded image generation methods.
Unlike existing works which generate individual object instances, require
identifying foreground followed by pasting on other images, we simplify to
directly generating scene-centric images. In addition to the synthetic data,
Gen2Det also proposes a suite of techniques to best utilize the generated data,
including image-level filtering, instance-level filtering, and better training
recipe to account for imperfections in the generation. Using Gen2Det, we show
healthy improvements on object detection and segmentation tasks under various
settings and agnostic to detection methods. In the long-tailed detection
setting on LVIS, Gen2Det improves the performance on rare categories by a large
margin while also significantly improving the performance on other categories,
e.g. we see an improvement of 2.13 Box AP and 1.84 Mask AP over just training
on real data on LVIS with Mask R-CNN. In the low-data regime setting on COCO,
Gen2Det consistently improves both Box and Mask AP by 2.27 and 1.85 points. In
the most general detection setting, Gen2Det still demonstrates robust
performance gains, e.g. it improves the Box and Mask AP on COCO by 0.45 and
0.32 points.

---

## 10. [DreamVideo: Composing Your Dream Videos with Customized Subject and
  Motion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04433)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04433](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04433)

**Authors**: Yujie Wei, Shiwei Zhang, Zhiwu Qing, Hangjie Yuan, Zhiheng Liu, Yu Liu, Yingya Zhang, Jingren Zhou, Hongming Shan

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Customized generation using diffusion models has made impressive progress in
image generation, but remains unsatisfactory in the challenging video
generation task, as it requires the controllability of both subjects and
motions. To that end, we present DreamVideo, a novel approach to generating
personalized videos from a few static images of the desired subject and a few
videos of target motion. DreamVideo decouples this task into two stages,
subject learning and motion learning, by leveraging a pre-trained video
diffusion model. The subject learning aims to accurately capture the fine
appearance of the subject from provided images, which is achieved by combining
textual inversion and fine-tuning of our carefully designed identity adapter.
In motion learning, we architect a motion adapter and fine-tune it on the given
videos to effectively model the target motion pattern. Combining these two
lightweight and efficient adapters allows for flexible customization of any
subject with any motion. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the
superior performance of our DreamVideo over the state-of-the-art methods for
customized video generation. Our project page is at
https://dreamvideo-t2v.github.io.

---

## 11. [Scaling Laws of Synthetic Images for Model Training ... for Now](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04567)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04567](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04567)

**Authors**: Lijie Fan, Kaifeng Chen, Dilip Krishnan, Dina Katabi, Phillip Isola, Yonglong Tian

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Recent significant advances in text-to-image models unlock the possibility of
training vision systems using synthetic images, potentially overcoming the
difficulty of collecting curated data at scale. It is unclear, however, how
these models behave at scale, as more synthetic data is added to the training
set. In this paper we study the scaling laws of synthetic images generated by
state of the art text-to-image models, for the training of supervised models:
image classifiers with label supervision, and CLIP with language supervision.
We identify several factors, including text prompts, classifier-free guidance
scale, and types of text-to-image models, that significantly affect scaling
behavior. After tuning these factors, we observe that synthetic images
demonstrate a scaling trend similar to, but slightly less effective than, real
images in CLIP training, while they significantly underperform in scaling when
training supervised image classifiers. Our analysis indicates that the main
reason for this underperformance is the inability of off-the-shelf
text-to-image models to generate certain concepts, a limitation that
significantly impairs the training of image classifiers. Our findings also
suggest that scaling synthetic data can be particularly effective in scenarios
such as: (1) when there is a limited supply of real images for a supervised
problem (e.g., fewer than 0.5 million images in ImageNet), (2) when the
evaluation dataset diverges significantly from the training data, indicating
the out-of-distribution scenario, or (3) when synthetic data is used in
conjunction with real images, as demonstrated in the training of CLIP models.

---

## 12. [Hierarchical Spatio-temporal Decoupling for Text-to-Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04483)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04483](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04483)

**Authors**: Zhiwu Qing, Shiwei Zhang, Jiayu Wang, Xiang Wang, Yujie Wei, Yingya Zhang, Changxin Gao, Nong Sang

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Despite diffusion models having shown powerful abilities to generate
photorealistic images, generating videos that are realistic and diverse still
remains in its infancy. One of the key reasons is that current methods
intertwine spatial content and temporal dynamics together, leading to a notably
increased complexity of text-to-video generation (T2V). In this work, we
propose HiGen, a diffusion model-based method that improves performance by
decoupling the spatial and temporal factors of videos from two perspectives,
i.e., structure level and content level. At the structure level, we decompose
the T2V task into two steps, including spatial reasoning and temporal
reasoning, using a unified denoiser. Specifically, we generate spatially
coherent priors using text during spatial reasoning and then generate
temporally coherent motions from these priors during temporal reasoning. At the
content level, we extract two subtle cues from the content of the input video
that can express motion and appearance changes, respectively. These two cues
then guide the model's training for generating videos, enabling flexible
content variations and enhancing temporal stability. Through the decoupled
paradigm, HiGen can effectively reduce the complexity of this task and generate
realistic videos with semantics accuracy and motion stability. Extensive
experiments demonstrate the superior performance of HiGen over the
state-of-the-art T2V methods.

---
