# Daily Papers - 2023-12-11

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-11)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [SparQ Attention: Bandwidth-Efficient LLM Inference](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04985)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04985](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04985)

**Authors**: Luka Ribar, Ivan Chelombiev, Luke Hudlass-Galley, Charlie Blake, Carlo Luschi, Douglas Orr

**Published**: 2023-12-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 40

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/graphcore-research/llm-inference-research)

### Abstract

Generative large language models (LLMs) have opened up numerous novel
possibilities, but due to their significant computational requirements their
ubiquitous use remains challenging. Some of the most useful applications
require processing large numbers of samples at a time and using long contexts,
both significantly increasing the memory communication load of the models. We
introduce SparQ Attention, a technique for increasing the inference throughput
of LLMs by reducing the memory bandwidth requirements within the attention
blocks through selective fetching of the cached history. Our proposed technique
can be applied directly to off-the-shelf LLMs during inference, without
requiring any modification to the pre-training setup or additional fine-tuning.
We show how SparQ Attention can decrease the attention memory bandwidth
requirements up to eight times without any loss in accuracy by evaluating Llama
2 and Pythia models on a wide range of downstream tasks.

---

## 2. [DreaMoving: A Human Dance Video Generation Framework based on Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.05107)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.05107](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05107)

**Authors**: Mengyang Feng, Jinlin Liu, Kai Yu, Yuan Yao, Zheng Hui, Xiefan Guo, Xianhui Lin, Haolan Xue, Xiaowen Li, Aojie Li, Miaomiao Cui, Peiran Ren, Xuansong Xie

**Published**: 2023-12-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 39

### Abstract

In this paper, we present DreaMoving, a diffusion-based controllable video
generation framework to produce high-quality customized human dance videos.
Specifically, given target identity and posture sequences, DreaMoving can
generate a video of the target identity dancing anywhere driven by the posture
sequences. To this end, we propose a Video ControlNet for motion-controlling
and a Content Guider for identity preserving. The proposed model is easy to use
and can be adapted to most stylized diffusion models to generate diverse
results. The project page is available at
https://dreamoving.github.io/dreamoving.

---

## 3. [Text-to-3D Generation with Bidirectional Diffusion using both 2D and 3D
  priors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04963)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04963](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04963)

**Authors**: Lihe Ding, Shaocong Dong, Zhanpeng Huang, Zibin Wang, Yiyuan Zhang, Kaixiong Gong, Dan Xu, Tianfan Xue

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Most 3D generation research focuses on up-projecting 2D foundation models
into the 3D space, either by minimizing 2D Score Distillation Sampling (SDS)
loss or fine-tuning on multi-view datasets. Without explicit 3D priors, these
methods often lead to geometric anomalies and multi-view inconsistency.
Recently, researchers have attempted to improve the genuineness of 3D objects
by directly training on 3D datasets, albeit at the cost of low-quality texture
generation due to the limited texture diversity in 3D datasets. To harness the
advantages of both approaches, we propose Bidirectional Diffusion(BiDiff), a
unified framework that incorporates both a 3D and a 2D diffusion process, to
preserve both 3D fidelity and 2D texture richness, respectively. Moreover, as a
simple combination may yield inconsistent generation results, we further bridge
them with novel bidirectional guidance. In addition, our method can be used as
an initialization of optimization-based models to further improve the quality
of 3D model and efficiency of optimization, reducing the generation process
from 3.4 hours to 20 minutes. Experimental results have shown that our model
achieves high-quality, diverse, and scalable 3D generation. Project website:
https://bidiff.github.io/.

---

## 4. [Customizing Motion in Text-to-Video Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04966)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04966](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04966)

**Authors**: Joanna Materzynska, Josef Sivic, Eli Shechtman, Antonio Torralba, Richard Zhang, Bryan Russell

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

We introduce an approach for augmenting text-to-video generation models with
customized motions, extending their capabilities beyond the motions depicted in
the original training data. By leveraging a few video samples demonstrating
specific movements as input, our method learns and generalizes the input motion
patterns for diverse, text-specified scenarios. Our contributions are
threefold. First, to achieve our results, we finetune an existing text-to-video
model to learn a novel mapping between the depicted motion in the input
examples to a new unique token. To avoid overfitting to the new custom motion,
we introduce an approach for regularization over videos. Second, by leveraging
the motion priors in a pretrained model, our method can produce novel videos
featuring multiple people doing the custom motion, and can invoke the motion in
combination with other motions. Furthermore, our approach extends to the
multimodal customization of motion and appearance of individualized subjects,
enabling the generation of videos featuring unique characters and distinct
motions. Third, to validate our method, we introduce an approach for
quantitatively evaluating the learned custom motion and perform a systematic
ablation study. We show that our method significantly outperforms prior
appearance-based customization approaches when extended to the motion
customization task.

---

## 5. [PathFinder: Guided Search over Multi-Step Reasoning Paths](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.05180)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.05180](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05180)

**Authors**: Olga Golovneva, Sean O'Brien, Ramakanth Pasunuru, Tianlu Wang, Luke Zettlemoyer, Maryam Fazel-Zarandi, Asli Celikyilmaz

**Published**: 2023-12-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

With recent advancements in large language models, methods like
chain-of-thought prompting to elicit reasoning chains have been shown to
improve results on reasoning tasks. However, tasks that require multiple steps
of reasoning still pose significant challenges to state-of-the-art models.
Drawing inspiration from the beam search algorithm, we propose PathFinder, a
tree-search-based reasoning path generation approach. It enhances diverse
branching and multi-hop reasoning through the integration of dynamic decoding,
enabled by varying sampling methods and parameters. Using constrained
reasoning, PathFinder integrates novel quality constraints, pruning, and
exploration methods to enhance the efficiency and the quality of generation.
Moreover, it includes scoring and ranking features to improve candidate
selection. Our approach outperforms competitive baselines on three complex
arithmetic and commonsense reasoning tasks by 6% on average. Our model
generalizes well to longer, unseen reasoning chains, reflecting similar
complexities to beam search with large branching factors.

---

## 6. [MVDD: Multi-View Depth Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04875)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04875](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04875)

**Authors**: Qiangeng Xu, Feitong Tan, Menglei Chai, Shichen Liu, Rohit Pandey, Sean Fanello, Achuta Kadambi, Yinda Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Denoising diffusion models have demonstrated outstanding results in 2D image
generation, yet it remains a challenge to replicate its success in 3D shape
generation. In this paper, we propose leveraging multi-view depth, which
represents complex 3D shapes in a 2D data format that is easy to denoise. We
pair this representation with a diffusion model, MVDD, that is capable of
generating high-quality dense point clouds with 20K+ points with fine-grained
details. To enforce 3D consistency in multi-view depth, we introduce an
epipolar line segment attention that conditions the denoising step for a view
on its neighboring views. Additionally, a depth fusion module is incorporated
into diffusion steps to further ensure the alignment of depth maps. When
augmented with surface reconstruction, MVDD can also produce high-quality 3D
meshes. Furthermore, MVDD stands out in other tasks such as depth completion,
and can serve as a 3D prior, significantly boosting many downstream tasks, such
as GAN inversion. State-of-the-art results from extensive experiments
demonstrate MVDD's excellent ability in 3D shape generation, depth completion,
and its potential as a 3D prior for downstream tasks.

---

## 7. [EE-LLM: Large-Scale Training and Inference of Early-Exit Large Language
  Models with 3D Parallelism](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04916)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04916](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04916)

**Authors**: Yanxi Chen, Xuchen Pan, Yaliang Li, Bolin Ding, Jingren Zhou

**Published**: 2023-12-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

We present EE-LLM, a framework for large-scale training and inference of
early-exit large language models (LLMs). While recent works have shown
preliminary evidence for the efficacy of early exiting in accelerating LLM
inference, EE-LLM makes a foundational step towards scaling up early-exit LLMs
by supporting their training and inference with massive 3D parallelism. Built
upon Megatron-LM, EE-LLM implements a variety of algorithmic innovations and
performance optimizations tailored to early exiting, including a lightweight
method that facilitates backpropagation for the early-exit training objective
with pipeline parallelism, techniques of leveraging idle resources in the
original pipeline schedule for computation related to early-exit layers, and
two approaches of early-exit inference that are compatible with KV caching for
autoregressive generation. Our analytical and empirical study shows that EE-LLM
achieves great training efficiency with negligible computational overhead
compared to standard LLM training, as well as outstanding inference speedup
without compromising output quality. To facilitate further research and
adoption, we release EE-LLM at https://github.com/pan-x-c/EE-LLM.

---

## 8. [Localized Symbolic Knowledge Distillation for Visual Commonsense Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04837)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04837](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04837)

**Authors**: Jae Sung Park, Jack Hessel, Khyathi Raghavi Chandu, Paul Pu Liang, Ximing Lu, Peter West, Youngjae Yu, Qiuyuan Huang, Ali Farhadi, Yejin Choi

**Published**: 2023-12-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Instruction following vision-language (VL) models offer a flexible interface
that supports a broad range of multimodal tasks in a zero-shot fashion.
However, interfaces that operate on full images do not directly enable the user
to "point to" and access specific regions within images. This capability is
important not only to support reference-grounded VL benchmarks, but also, for
practical applications that require precise within-image reasoning. We build
Localized Visual Commonsense models, which allow users to specify (multiple)
regions as input. We train our model by sampling localized commonsense
knowledge from a large language model (LLM): specifically, we prompt an LLM to
collect commonsense knowledge given a global literal image description and a
local literal region description automatically generated by a set of VL models.
With a separately trained critic model that selects high-quality examples, we
find that training on the localized commonsense corpus can successfully distill
existing VL models to support a reference-as-input interface. Empirical results
and human evaluations in a zero-shot setup demonstrate that our distillation
method results in more precise VL models of reasoning compared to a baseline of
passing a generated referring expression to an LLM.

---
