# Daily Papers - 2023-12-15

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-15)

Total papers: 19

---

## 1. [StemGen: A music generation model that listens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08723)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08723](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08723)

**Authors**: Julian D. Parker, Janne Spijkervet, Katerina Kosta, Furkan Yesiler, Boris Kuznetsov, Ju-Chiang Wang, Matt Avent, Jitong Chen, Duc Le

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 49

### Abstract

End-to-end generation of musical audio using deep learning techniques has
seen an explosion of activity recently. However, most models concentrate on
generating fully mixed music in response to abstract conditioning information.
In this work, we present an alternative paradigm for producing music generation
models that can listen and respond to musical context. We describe how such a
model can be constructed using a non-autoregressive, transformer-based model
architecture and present a number of novel architectural and sampling
improvements. We train the described architecture on both an open-source and a
proprietary dataset. We evaluate the produced models using standard quality
metrics and a new approach based on music information retrieval descriptors.
The resulting model reaches the audio quality of state-of-the-art
text-conditioned models, as well as exhibiting strong musical coherence with
its context.

---

## 2. [TinyGSM: achieving >80% on GSM8k with small language models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09241)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09241](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09241)

**Authors**: Bingbin Liu, Sebastien Bubeck, Ronen Eldan, Janardhan Kulkarni, Yuanzhi Li, Anh Nguyen, Rachel Ward, Yi Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 39

### Abstract

Small-scale models offer various computational advantages, and yet to which
extent size is critical for problem-solving abilities remains an open question.
Specifically for solving grade school math, the smallest model size so far
required to break the 80\% barrier on the GSM8K benchmark remains to be 34B.
Our work studies how high-quality datasets may be the key for small language
models to acquire mathematical reasoning. We introduce TinyGSM, a
synthetic dataset of 12.3M grade school math problems paired with Python
solutions, generated fully by GPT-3.5. After finetuning on TinyGSM, we
find that a duo of a 1.3B generation model and a 1.3B verifier model can
achieve 81.5\% accuracy, outperforming existing models that are orders of
magnitude larger. This also rivals the performance of the GPT-3.5 ``teacher''
model (77.4\%), from which our model's training data is generated. Our approach
is simple and has two key components: 1) the high-quality dataset
TinyGSM, 2) the use of a verifier, which selects the final outputs
from multiple candidate generations.

---

## 3. [CogAgent: A Visual Language Model for GUI Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08914)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08914](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08914)

**Authors**: Wenyi Hong, Weihan Wang, Qingsong Lv, Jiazheng Xu, Wenmeng Yu, Junhui Ji, Yan Wang, Zihan Wang, Yuxiao Dong, Ming Ding, Jie Tang

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thudm/cogvlm)

### Abstract

People are spending an enormous amount of time on digital devices through
graphical user interfaces (GUIs), e.g., computer or smartphone screens. Large
language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT can assist people in tasks like writing
emails, but struggle to understand and interact with GUIs, thus limiting their
potential to increase automation levels. In this paper, we introduce CogAgent,
an 18-billion-parameter visual language model (VLM) specializing in GUI
understanding and navigation. By utilizing both low-resolution and
high-resolution image encoders, CogAgent supports input at a resolution of
1120*1120, enabling it to recognize tiny page elements and text. As a
generalist visual language model, CogAgent achieves the state of the art on
five text-rich and four general VQA benchmarks, including VQAv2, OK-VQA,
Text-VQA, ST-VQA, ChartQA, infoVQA, DocVQA, MM-Vet, and POPE. CogAgent, using
only screenshots as input, outperforms LLM-based methods that consume extracted
HTML text on both PC and Android GUI navigation tasks -- Mind2Web and AITW,
advancing the state of the art. The model and codes are available at
https://github.com/THUDM/CogVLM.

---

## 4. [VideoLCM: Video Latent Consistency Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09109)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09109](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09109)

**Authors**: Xiang Wang, Shiwei Zhang, Han Zhang, Yu Liu, Yingya Zhang, Changxin Gao, Nong Sang

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Consistency models have demonstrated powerful capability in efficient image
generation and allowed synthesis within a few sampling steps, alleviating the
high computational cost in diffusion models. However, the consistency model in
the more challenging and resource-consuming video generation is still less
explored. In this report, we present the VideoLCM framework to fill this gap,
which leverages the concept of consistency models from image generation to
efficiently synthesize videos with minimal steps while maintaining high
quality. VideoLCM builds upon existing latent video diffusion models and
incorporates consistency distillation techniques for training the latent
consistency model. Experimental results reveal the effectiveness of our
VideoLCM in terms of computational efficiency, fidelity and temporal
consistency. Notably, VideoLCM achieves high-fidelity and smooth video
synthesis with only four sampling steps, showcasing the potential for real-time
synthesis. We hope that VideoLCM can serve as a simple yet effective baseline
for subsequent research. The source code and models will be publicly available.

---

## 5. [A Picture is Worth More Than 77 Text Tokens: Evaluating CLIP-Style
  Models on Dense Captions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08578)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08578](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08578)

**Authors**: Jack Urbanek, Florian Bordes, Pietro Astolfi, Mary Williamson, Vasu Sharma, Adriana Romero-Soriano

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/dci)

### Abstract

Curation methods for massive vision-language datasets trade off between
dataset size and quality. However, even the highest quality of available
curated captions are far too short to capture the rich visual detail in an
image. To show the value of dense and highly-aligned image-text pairs, we
collect the Densely Captioned Images (DCI) dataset, containing 8012 natural
images human-annotated with mask-aligned descriptions averaging above 1000
words each. With precise and reliable captions associated with specific parts
of an image, we can evaluate vision-language models' (VLMs) understanding of
image content with a novel task that matches each caption with its
corresponding subcrop. As current models are often limited to 77 text tokens,
we also introduce a summarized version (sDCI) in which each caption length is
limited. We show that modern techniques that make progress on standard
benchmarks do not correspond with significant improvement on our sDCI based
benchmark. Lastly, we finetune CLIP using sDCI and show significant
improvements over the baseline despite a small training set. By releasing the
first human annotated dense image captioning dataset, we hope to enable the
development of new benchmarks or fine-tuning recipes for the next generation of
VLMs to come.

---

## 6. [Mosaic-SDF for 3D Generative Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09222)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09222](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09222)

**Authors**: Lior Yariv, Omri Puny, Natalia Neverova, Oran Gafni, Yaron Lipman

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Current diffusion or flow-based generative models for 3D shapes divide to
two: distilling pre-trained 2D image diffusion models, and training directly on
3D shapes. When training a diffusion or flow models on 3D shapes a crucial
design choice is the shape representation. An effective shape representation
needs to adhere three design principles: it should allow an efficient
conversion of large 3D datasets to the representation form; it should provide a
good tradeoff of approximation power versus number of parameters; and it should
have a simple tensorial form that is compatible with existing powerful neural
architectures. While standard 3D shape representations such as volumetric grids
and point clouds do not adhere to all these principles simultaneously, we
advocate in this paper a new representation that does. We introduce Mosaic-SDF
(M-SDF): a simple 3D shape representation that approximates the Signed Distance
Function (SDF) of a given shape by using a set of local grids spread near the
shape's boundary. The M-SDF representation is fast to compute for each shape
individually making it readily parallelizable; it is parameter efficient as it
only covers the space around the shape's boundary; and it has a simple matrix
form, compatible with Transformer-based architectures. We demonstrate the
efficacy of the M-SDF representation by using it to train a 3D generative flow
model including class-conditioned generation with the 3D Warehouse dataset, and
text-to-3D generation using a dataset of about 600k caption-shape pairs.

---

## 7. [Pixel Aligned Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09237)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09237](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09237)

**Authors**: Jiarui Xu, Xingyi Zhou, Shen Yan, Xiuye Gu, Anurag Arnab, Chen Sun, Xiaolong Wang, Cordelia Schmid

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Large language models have achieved great success in recent years, so as
their variants in vision. Existing vision-language models can describe images
in natural languages, answer visual-related questions, or perform complex
reasoning about the image. However, it is yet unclear how localization tasks,
such as word grounding or referring localization, can be performed using large
language models. In this work, we aim to develop a vision-language model that
can take locations, for example, a set of points or boxes, as either inputs or
outputs. When taking locations as inputs, the model performs
location-conditioned captioning, which generates captions for the indicated
object or region. When generating locations as outputs, our model regresses
pixel coordinates for each output word generated by the language model, and
thus performs dense word grounding. Our model is pre-trained on the Localized
Narrative dataset, which contains pixel-word-aligned captioning from human
attention. We show our model can be applied to various location-aware
vision-language tasks, including referring localization, location-conditioned
captioning, and dense object captioning, archiving state-of-the-art performance
on RefCOCO and Visual Genome. Project page: https://jerryxu.net/PixelLLM .

---

## 8. [SEEAvatar: Photorealistic Text-to-3D Avatar Generation with Constrained
  Geometry and Appearance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08889)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08889](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08889)

**Authors**: Yuanyou Xu, Zongxin Yang, Yi Yang

**Published**: 2023-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Powered by large-scale text-to-image generation models, text-to-3D avatar
generation has made promising progress. However, most methods fail to produce
photorealistic results, limited by imprecise geometry and low-quality
appearance. Towards more practical avatar generation, we present SEEAvatar, a
method for generating photorealistic 3D avatars from text with SElf-Evolving
constraints for decoupled geometry and appearance. For geometry, we propose to
constrain the optimized avatar in a decent global shape with a template avatar.
The template avatar is initialized with human prior and can be updated by the
optimized avatar periodically as an evolving template, which enables more
flexible shape generation. Besides, the geometry is also constrained by the
static human prior in local parts like face and hands to maintain the delicate
structures. For appearance generation, we use diffusion model enhanced by
prompt engineering to guide a physically based rendering pipeline to generate
realistic textures. The lightness constraint is applied on the albedo texture
to suppress incorrect lighting effect. Experiments show that our method
outperforms previous methods on both global and local geometry and appearance
quality by a large margin. Since our method can produce high-quality meshes and
textures, such assets can be directly applied in classic graphics pipeline for
realistic rendering under any lighting condition. Project page at:
https://seeavatar3d.github.io.

---

## 9. [Zebra: Extending Context Window with Layerwise Grouped Local-Global
  Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08618)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08618](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08618)

**Authors**: Kaiqiang Song, Xiaoyang Wang, Sangwoo Cho, Xiaoman Pan, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

This paper introduces a novel approach to enhance the capabilities of Large
Language Models (LLMs) in processing and understanding extensive text
sequences, a critical aspect in applications requiring deep comprehension and
synthesis of large volumes of information. Recognizing the inherent challenges
in extending the context window for LLMs, primarily built on Transformer
architecture, we propose a new model architecture, referred to as Zebra. This
architecture efficiently manages the quadratic time and memory complexity
issues associated with full attention in the Transformer by employing grouped
local-global attention layers. Our model, akin to a zebra's alternating
stripes, balances local and global attention layers, significantly reducing
computational requirements and memory consumption. Comprehensive experiments,
including pretraining from scratch, continuation of long context adaptation
training, and long instruction tuning, are conducted to evaluate the Zebra's
performance. The results show that Zebra achieves comparable or superior
performance on both short and long sequence benchmarks, while also enhancing
training and inference efficiency.

---

## 10. [FineControlNet: Fine-level Text Control for Image Generation with
  Spatially Aligned Text Control Injection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09252)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09252](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09252)

**Authors**: Hongsuk Choi, Isaac Kasahara, Selim Engin, Moritz Graule, Nikhil Chavan-Dafle, Volkan Isler

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Recently introduced ControlNet has the ability to steer the text-driven image
generation process with geometric input such as human 2D pose, or edge
features. While ControlNet provides control over the geometric form of the
instances in the generated image, it lacks the capability to dictate the visual
appearance of each instance. We present FineControlNet to provide fine control
over each instance's appearance while maintaining the precise pose control
capability. Specifically, we develop and demonstrate FineControlNet with
geometric control via human pose images and appearance control via
instance-level text prompts. The spatial alignment of instance-specific text
prompts and 2D poses in latent space enables the fine control capabilities of
FineControlNet. We evaluate the performance of FineControlNet with rigorous
comparison against state-of-the-art pose-conditioned text-to-image diffusion
models. FineControlNet achieves superior performance in generating images that
follow the user-provided instance-specific text prompts and poses compared with
existing methods. Project webpage:
https://samsunglabs.github.io/FineControlNet-project-page

---

## 11. [Vision-Language Models as a Source of Rewards](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09187)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09187](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09187)

**Authors**: Kate Baumli, Satinder Baveja, Feryal Behbahani, Harris Chan, Gheorghe Comanici, Sebastian Flennerhag, Maxime Gazeau, Kristian Holsheimer, Dan Horgan, Michael Laskin, Clare Lyle, Hussain Masoom, Kay McKinney, Volodymyr Mnih, Alexander Neitz, Fabio Pardo, Jack Parker-Holder, John Quan, Tim Rocktäschel, Himanshu Sahni, Tom Schaul, Yannick Schroecker, Stephen Spencer, Richie Steigerwald, Luyu Wang, Lei Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Building generalist agents that can accomplish many goals in rich open-ended
environments is one of the research frontiers for reinforcement learning. A key
limiting factor for building generalist agents with RL has been the need for a
large number of reward functions for achieving different goals. We investigate
the feasibility of using off-the-shelf vision-language models, or VLMs, as
sources of rewards for reinforcement learning agents. We show how rewards for
visual achievement of a variety of language goals can be derived from the CLIP
family of models, and used to train RL agents that can achieve a variety of
language goals. We showcase this approach in two distinct visual domains and
present a scaling trend showing how larger VLMs lead to more accurate rewards
for visual goal achievement, which in turn produces more capable RL agents.

---

## 12. [General Object Foundation Model for Images and Videos at Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09158)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09158](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09158)

**Authors**: Junfeng Wu, Yi Jiang, Qihao Liu, Zehuan Yuan, Xiang Bai, Song Bai

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/FoundationVision/GLEE)

### Abstract

We present GLEE in this work, an object-level foundation model for locating
and identifying objects in images and videos. Through a unified framework, GLEE
accomplishes detection, segmentation, tracking, grounding, and identification
of arbitrary objects in the open world scenario for various object perception
tasks. Adopting a cohesive learning strategy, GLEE acquires knowledge from
diverse data sources with varying supervision levels to formulate general
object representations, excelling in zero-shot transfer to new data and tasks.
Specifically, we employ an image encoder, text encoder, and visual prompter to
handle multi-modal inputs, enabling to simultaneously solve various
object-centric downstream tasks while maintaining state-of-the-art performance.
Demonstrated through extensive training on over five million images from
diverse benchmarks, GLEE exhibits remarkable versatility and improved
generalization performance, efficiently tackling downstream tasks without the
need for task-specific adaptation. By integrating large volumes of
automatically labeled data, we further enhance its zero-shot generalization
capabilities. Additionally, GLEE is capable of being integrated into Large
Language Models, serving as a foundational model to provide universal
object-level information for multi-modal tasks. We hope that the versatility
and universality of our method will mark a significant step in the development
of efficient visual foundation models for AGI systems. The model and code will
be released at https://glee-vision.github.io .

---

## 13. [UniDream: Unifying Diffusion Priors for Relightable Text-to-3D
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08754)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08754](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08754)

**Authors**: Zexiang Liu, Yangguang Li, Youtian Lin, Xin Yu, Sida Peng, Yan-Pei Cao, Xiaojuan Qi, Xiaoshui Huang, Ding Liang, Wanli Ouyang

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Recent advancements in text-to-3D generation technology have significantly
advanced the conversion of textual descriptions into imaginative
well-geometrical and finely textured 3D objects. Despite these developments, a
prevalent limitation arises from the use of RGB data in diffusion or
reconstruction models, which often results in models with inherent lighting and
shadows effects that detract from their realism, thereby limiting their
usability in applications that demand accurate relighting capabilities. To
bridge this gap, we present UniDream, a text-to-3D generation framework by
incorporating unified diffusion priors. Our approach consists of three main
components: (1) a dual-phase training process to get albedo-normal aligned
multi-view diffusion and reconstruction models, (2) a progressive generation
procedure for geometry and albedo-textures based on Score Distillation Sample
(SDS) using the trained reconstruction and diffusion models, and (3) an
innovative application of SDS for finalizing PBR generation while keeping a
fixed albedo based on Stable Diffusion model. Extensive evaluations demonstrate
that UniDream surpasses existing methods in generating 3D objects with clearer
albedo textures, smoother surfaces, enhanced realism, and superior relighting
capabilities.

---

## 14. [ZeroQuant(4+2): Redefining LLMs Quantization with a New FP6-Centric
  Strategy for Diverse Generative Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08583)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08583](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08583)

**Authors**: Xiaoxia Wu, Haojun Xia, Stephen Youn, Zhen Zheng, Shiyang Chen, Arash Bakhtiari, Michael Wyatt, Yuxiong He, Olatunji Ruwase, Leon Song, Zhewei Yao

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

This study examines 4-bit quantization methods like GPTQ in large language
models (LLMs), highlighting GPTQ's overfitting and limited enhancement in
Zero-Shot tasks. While prior works merely focusing on zero-shot measurement, we
extend task scope to more generative categories such as code generation and
abstractive summarization, in which we found that INT4 quantization can
significantly underperform. However, simply shifting to higher precision
formats like FP6 has been particularly challenging, thus overlooked, due to
poor performance caused by the lack of sophisticated integration and system
acceleration strategies on current AI hardware. Our results show that FP6, even
with a coarse-grain quantization scheme, performs robustly across various
algorithms and tasks, demonstrating its superiority in accuracy and
versatility. Notably, with the FP6 quantization, \codestar-15B model performs
comparably to its FP16 counterpart in code generation, and for smaller models
like the 406M it closely matches their baselines in summarization. Neither can
be achieved by INT4. To better accommodate various AI hardware and achieve the
best system performance, we propose a novel 4+2 design for FP6 to achieve
similar latency to the state-of-the-art INT4 fine-grain quantization. With our
design, FP6 can become a promising solution to the current 4-bit quantization
methods used in LLMs.

---

## 15. [LIME: Localized Image Editing via Attention Regularization in Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09256)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09256](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09256)

**Authors**: Enis Simsar, Alessio Tonioni, Yongqin Xian, Thomas Hofmann, Federico Tombari

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Diffusion models (DMs) have gained prominence due to their ability to
generate high-quality, varied images, with recent advancements in text-to-image
generation. The research focus is now shifting towards the controllability of
DMs. A significant challenge within this domain is localized editing, where
specific areas of an image are modified without affecting the rest of the
content. This paper introduces LIME for localized image editing in diffusion
models that do not require user-specified regions of interest (RoI) or
additional text input. Our method employs features from pre-trained methods and
a simple clustering technique to obtain precise semantic segmentation maps.
Then, by leveraging cross-attention maps, it refines these segments for
localized edits. Finally, we propose a novel cross-attention regularization
technique that penalizes unrelated cross-attention scores in the RoI during the
denoising steps, ensuring localized edits. Our approach, without re-training
and fine-tuning, consistently improves the performance of existing methods in
various editing benchmarks.

---

## 16. [VL-GPT: A Generative Pre-trained Transformer for Vision and Language
  Understanding and Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09251)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09251](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09251)

**Authors**: Jinguo Zhu, Xiaohan Ding, Yixiao Ge, Yuying Ge, Sijie Zhao, Hengshuang Zhao, Xiaohua Wang, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ailab-cvc/vl-gpt)

### Abstract

In this work, we introduce Vision-Language Generative Pre-trained Transformer
(VL-GPT), a transformer model proficient at concurrently perceiving and
generating visual and linguistic data. VL-GPT achieves a unified pre-training
approach for both image and text modalities by employing a straightforward
auto-regressive objective, thereby enabling the model to process image and text
as seamlessly as a language model processes text. To accomplish this, we
initially propose a novel image tokenizer-detokenizer framework for visual
data, specifically designed to transform raw images into a sequence of
continuous embeddings and reconstruct them accordingly. In combination with the
existing text tokenizer and detokenizer, this framework allows for the encoding
of interleaved image-text data into a multimodal sequence, which can
subsequently be fed into the transformer model. Consequently, VL-GPT can
perform large-scale pre-training on multimodal corpora utilizing a unified
auto-regressive objective (i.e., next-token prediction). Upon completion of
pre-training, VL-GPT exhibits remarkable zero-shot and few-shot performance
across a diverse range of vision and language understanding and generation
tasks, including image captioning, visual question answering, text-to-image
generation, and more. Additionally, the pre-trained model retrains in-context
learning capabilities when provided with multimodal prompts. We further conduct
instruction tuning on our VL-GPT, highlighting its exceptional potential for
multimodal assistance. The source code and model weights shall be released.

---

## 17. [Helping or Herding? Reward Model Ensembles Mitigate but do not Eliminate
  Reward Hacking](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09244)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09244](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09244)

**Authors**: Jacob Eisenstein, Chirag Nagpal, Alekh Agarwal, Ahmad Beirami, Alex D'Amour, DJ Dvijotham, Adam Fisch, Katherine Heller, Stephen Pfohl, Deepak Ramachandran, Peter Shaw, Jonathan Berant

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-deepmind/reward-ensembles)

### Abstract

Reward models play a key role in aligning language model applications towards
human preferences. However, this setup creates an incentive for the language
model to exploit errors in the reward model to achieve high estimated reward, a
phenomenon often termed reward hacking. A natural mitigation is to train
an ensemble of reward models, aggregating over model outputs to obtain a more
robust reward estimate. We explore the application of reward ensembles to
alignment at both training time (through reinforcement learning) and inference
time (through reranking). First, we show that reward models are
underspecified: reward models that perform similarly in-distribution can
yield very different rewards when used in alignment, due to distribution shift.
Second, underspecification results in overoptimization, where alignment to one
reward model does not improve reward as measured by another reward model
trained on the same data. Third, overoptimization is mitigated by the use of
reward ensembles, and ensembles that vary by their pretraining seeds
lead to better generalization than ensembles that differ only by their
fine-tuning seeds, with both outperforming individual reward models.
However, even pretrain reward ensembles do not eliminate reward hacking: we
show several qualitative reward hacking phenomena that are not mitigated by
ensembling because all reward models in the ensemble exhibit similar error
patterns.

---

## 18. [SHAP-EDITOR: Instruction-guided Latent 3D Editing in Seconds](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09246)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09246](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09246)

**Authors**: Minghao Chen, Junyu Xie, Iro Laina, Andrea Vedaldi

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

We propose a novel feed-forward 3D editing framework called Shap-Editor.
Prior research on editing 3D objects primarily concentrated on editing
individual objects by leveraging off-the-shelf 2D image editing networks. This
is achieved via a process called distillation, which transfers knowledge from
the 2D network to 3D assets. Distillation necessitates at least tens of minutes
per asset to attain satisfactory editing results, and is thus not very
practical. In contrast, we ask whether 3D editing can be carried out directly
by a feed-forward network, eschewing test-time optimisation. In particular, we
hypothesise that editing can be greatly simplified by first encoding 3D objects
in a suitable latent space. We validate this hypothesis by building upon the
latent space of Shap-E. We demonstrate that direct 3D editing in this space is
possible and efficient by building a feed-forward editor network that only
requires approximately one second per edit. Our experiments show that
Shap-Editor generalises well to both in-distribution and out-of-distribution 3D
assets with different prompts, exhibiting comparable performance with methods
that carry out test-time optimisation for each edited instance.

---

## 19. [TigerBot: An Open Multilingual Multitask LLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08688)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08688](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08688)

**Authors**: Ye Chen, Wei Cai, Liangmin Wu, Xiaowei Li, Zhanxuan Xin, Cong Fu

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tigerresearch/tigerbot)

### Abstract

We release and introduce the TigerBot family of large language models (LLMs),
consisting of base and chat models, sized from 7, 13, 70 and 180 billion
parameters. We develop our models embarking from Llama-2 and BLOOM, and push
the boundary further in data, training algorithm, infrastructure, and
application tools. Our models yield meaningful performance gain over SOTA
open-source models, e.g., Llama-2, specifically 6\% gain in English and 20\%
gain in Chinese. TigerBot model family also achieves leading performance in
major academic and industrial benchmarks and leaderboards. We believe that
TigerBot represents just a snapshot of lightning-fast progression in LLM
open-source community. Therefore, we are thrilled to give back by publicly
releasing our models and reporting our approach behind, with additional
emphases on building SOTA LLMs in a democratized way and making LLMs of use in
real-world applications.

---
