# Daily Papers - 2023-12-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-10)

Total papers: 2

---

## 1. [Purple Llama CyberSecEval: A Secure Coding Benchmark for Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04724)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04724](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04724)

**Authors**: Manish Bhatt, Sahana Chennabasappa, Cyrus Nikolaidis, Shengye Wan, Ivan Evtimov, Dominik Gabi, Daniel Song, Faizan Ahmad, Cornelius Aschermann, Lorenzo Fontana, Sasha Frolov, Ravi Prakash Giri, Dhaval Kapil, Yiannis Kozyrakis, David LeBlanc, James Milazzo, Aleksandar Straumann, Gabriel Synnaeve, Varun Vontimitta, Spencer Whitman, Joshua Saxe

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

This paper presents CyberSecEval, a comprehensive benchmark developed to help
bolster the cybersecurity of Large Language Models (LLMs) employed as coding
assistants. As what we believe to be the most extensive unified cybersecurity
safety benchmark to date, CyberSecEval provides a thorough evaluation of LLMs
in two crucial security domains: their propensity to generate insecure code and
their level of compliance when asked to assist in cyberattacks. Through a case
study involving seven models from the Llama 2, Code Llama, and OpenAI GPT large
language model families, CyberSecEval effectively pinpointed key cybersecurity
risks. More importantly, it offered practical insights for refining these
models. A significant observation from the study was the tendency of more
advanced models to suggest insecure code, highlighting the critical need for
integrating security considerations in the development of sophisticated LLMs.
CyberSecEval, with its automated test case generation and evaluation pipeline
covers a broad scope and equips LLM designers and researchers with a tool to
broadly measure and enhance the cybersecurity safety properties of LLMs,
contributing to the development of more secure AI systems.

---

## 2. [ECLIPSE: A Resource-Efficient Text-to-Image Prior for Image Generations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.04655)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.04655](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04655)

**Authors**: Maitreya Patel, Changhoon Kim, Sheng Cheng, Chitta Baral, Yezhou Yang

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

Text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models, notably the unCLIP models (e.g.,
DALL-E-2), achieve state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on various compositional
T2I benchmarks, at the cost of significant computational resources. The unCLIP
stack comprises T2I prior and diffusion image decoder. The T2I prior model
alone adds a billion parameters compared to the Latent Diffusion Models, which
increases the computational and high-quality data requirements. We introduce
ECLIPSE, a novel contrastive learning method that is both parameter and
data-efficient. ECLIPSE leverages pre-trained vision-language models (e.g.,
CLIP) to distill the knowledge into the prior model. We demonstrate that the
ECLIPSE trained prior, with only 3.3% of the parameters and trained on a mere
2.8% of the data, surpasses the baseline T2I priors with an average of 71.6%
preference score under resource-limited setting. It also attains performance on
par with SOTA big models, achieving an average of 63.36% preference score in
terms of the ability to follow the text compositions. Extensive experiments on
two unCLIP diffusion image decoders, Karlo and Kandinsky, affirm that ECLIPSE
priors consistently deliver high performance while significantly reducing
resource dependency.

---
