# Daily Papers - 2023-12-29

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-29)

Total papers: 19

---

## 1. [TinyGPT-V: Efficient Multimodal Large Language Model via Small Backbones](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16862)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16862](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16862)

**Authors**: Zhengqing Yuan, Zhaoxu Li, Lichao Sun

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dlyuangod/tinygpt-v)

### Abstract

In the era of advanced multimodel learning, multimodal large language models
(MLLMs) such as GPT-4V have made remarkable strides towards bridging language
and visual elements. However, the closed-source nature and considerable
computational demand present notable challenges for universal usage and
modifications. This is where open-source MLLMs like LLaVA and MiniGPT-4 come
in, presenting groundbreaking achievements across tasks. Despite these
accomplishments, computational efficiency remains an unresolved issue, as these
models, like LLaVA-v1.5-13B, require substantial resources. Addressing these
issues, we introduce TinyGPT-V, a new-wave model marrying impressive
performance with commonplace computational capacity. It stands out by requiring
merely a 24G GPU for training and an 8G GPU or CPU for inference. Built upon
Phi-2, TinyGPT-V couples an effective language backbone with pre-trained vision
modules from BLIP-2 or CLIP. TinyGPT-V's 2.8B parameters can undergo a unique
quantisation process, suitable for local deployment and inference tasks on 8G
various devices. Our work fosters further developments for designing
cost-effective, efficient, and high-performing MLLMs, expanding their
applicability in a broad array of real-world scenarios. Furthermore this paper
proposed a new paradigm of Multimodal Large Language Model via small backbones.
Our code and training weights are placed at:
https://github.com/DLYuanGod/TinyGPT-V and
https://huggingface.co/Tyrannosaurus/TinyGPT-V respectively.

---

## 2. [Unified-IO 2: Scaling Autoregressive Multimodal Models with Vision,
  Language, Audio, and Action](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17172)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17172](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17172)

**Authors**: Jiasen Lu, Christopher Clark, Sangho Lee, Zichen Zhang, Savya Khosla, Ryan Marten, Derek Hoiem, Aniruddha Kembhavi

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/allenai/unified-io-2)

### Abstract

We present Unified-IO 2, the first autoregressive multimodal model that is
capable of understanding and generating image, text, audio, and action. To
unify different modalities, we tokenize inputs and outputs -- images, text,
audio, action, bounding boxes, etc., into a shared semantic space and then
process them with a single encoder-decoder transformer model. Since training
with such diverse modalities is challenging, we propose various architectural
improvements to stabilize model training. We train our model from scratch on a
large multimodal pre-training corpus from diverse sources with a multimodal
mixture of denoisers objective. To learn an expansive set of skills, such as
following multimodal instructions, we construct and finetune on an ensemble of
120 datasets with prompts and augmentations. With a single unified model,
Unified-IO 2 achieves state-of-the-art performance on the GRIT benchmark and
strong results in more than 35 benchmarks, including image generation and
understanding, natural language understanding, video and audio understanding,
and robotic manipulation. We release all our models to the research community.

---

## 3. [Generative AI for Math: Part I -- MathPile: A Billion-Token-Scale
  Pretraining Corpus for Math](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17120)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17120](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17120)

**Authors**: Zengzhi Wang, Rui Xia, Pengfei Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gair-nlp/mathpile)

### Abstract

High-quality, large-scale corpora are the cornerstone of building foundation
models. In this work, we introduce MathPile, a diverse and
high-quality math-centric corpus comprising about 9.5 billion tokens.
Throughout its creation, we adhered to the principle of ``less is
more'', firmly believing in the supremacy of data quality over quantity, even
in the pre-training phase. Our meticulous data collection and processing
efforts included a complex suite of preprocessing, prefiltering, language
identification, cleaning, filtering, and deduplication, ensuring the high
quality of our corpus. Furthermore, we performed data contamination detection
on downstream benchmark test sets to eliminate duplicates. We hope our
MathPile can help to enhance the mathematical reasoning abilities of
language models. We plan to open-source different versions of \mathpile with
the scripts used for processing, to facilitate future developments in this
field.

---

## 4. [MobileVLM : A Fast, Reproducible and Strong Vision Language Assistant
  for Mobile Devices](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16886)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16886](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16886)

**Authors**: Xiangxiang Chu, Limeng Qiao, Xinyang Lin, Shuang Xu, Yang Yang, Yiming Hu, Fei Wei, Xinyu Zhang, Bo Zhang, Xiaolin Wei, Chunhua Shen

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Meituan-AutoML/MobileVLM)

### Abstract

We present MobileVLM, a competent multimodal vision language model (MMVLM)
targeted to run on mobile devices. It is an amalgamation of a myriad of
architectural designs and techniques that are mobile-oriented, which comprises
a set of language models at the scale of 1.4B and 2.7B parameters, trained from
scratch, a multimodal vision model that is pre-trained in the CLIP fashion,
cross-modality interaction via an efficient projector. We evaluate MobileVLM on
several typical VLM benchmarks. Our models demonstrate on par performance
compared with a few much larger models. More importantly, we measure the
inference speed on both a Qualcomm Snapdragon 888 CPU and an NVIDIA Jeston Orin
GPU, and we obtain state-of-the-art performance of 21.5 tokens and 65.3 tokens
per second, respectively. Our code will be made available at:
https://github.com/Meituan-AutoML/MobileVLM.

---

## 5. [Unsupervised Universal Image Segmentation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17243)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17243](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17243)

**Authors**: Dantong Niu, Xudong Wang, Xinyang Han, Long Lian, Roei Herzig, Trevor Darrell

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dantong88/llarva)

### Abstract

Several unsupervised image segmentation approaches have been proposed which
eliminate the need for dense manually-annotated segmentation masks; current
models separately handle either semantic segmentation (e.g., STEGO) or
class-agnostic instance segmentation (e.g., CutLER), but not both (i.e.,
panoptic segmentation). We propose an Unsupervised Universal Segmentation model
(U2Seg) adept at performing various image segmentation tasks -- instance,
semantic and panoptic -- using a novel unified framework. U2Seg generates
pseudo semantic labels for these segmentation tasks via leveraging
self-supervised models followed by clustering; each cluster represents
different semantic and/or instance membership of pixels. We then self-train the
model on these pseudo semantic labels, yielding substantial performance gains
over specialized methods tailored to each task: a +2.6 AP^{box} boost
vs. CutLER in unsupervised instance segmentation on COCO and a +7.0 PixelAcc
increase (vs. STEGO) in unsupervised semantic segmentation on COCOStuff.
Moreover, our method sets up a new baseline for unsupervised panoptic
segmentation, which has not been previously explored. U2Seg is also a strong
pretrained model for few-shot segmentation, surpassing CutLER by +5.0
AP^{mask} when trained on a low-data regime, e.g., only 1% COCO
labels. We hope our simple yet effective method can inspire more research on
unsupervised universal image segmentation.

---

## 6. [DreamGaussian4D: Generative 4D Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17142)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17142](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17142)

**Authors**: Jiawei Ren, Liang Pan, Chi Zhang, Ang Cao, Gang Zeng, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jiawei-ren/dreamgaussian4d)

### Abstract

Remarkable progress has been made in 4D content generation recently. However,
existing methods suffer from long optimization time, lack of motion
controllability, and a low level of detail. In this paper, we introduce
DreamGaussian4D, an efficient 4D generation framework that builds on 4D
Gaussian Splatting representation. Our key insight is that the explicit
modeling of spatial transformations in Gaussian Splatting makes it more
suitable for the 4D generation setting compared with implicit representations.
DreamGaussian4D reduces the optimization time from several hours to just a few
minutes, allows flexible control of the generated 3D motion, and produces
animated meshes that can be efficiently rendered in 3D engines.

---

## 7. [DL3DV-10K: A Large-Scale Scene Dataset for Deep Learning-based 3D Vision](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16256)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16256](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16256)

**Authors**: Lu Ling, Yichen Sheng, Zhi Tu, Wentian Zhao, Cheng Xin, Kun Wan, Lantao Yu, Qianyu Guo, Zixun Yu, Yawen Lu, Xuanmao Li, Xingpeng Sun, Rohan Ashok, Aniruddha Mukherjee, Hao Kang, Xiangrui Kong, Gang Hua, Tianti Zhang, Bedrich Benes, Aniket Bera

**Published**: 2023-12-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/DL3DV-10K/Dataset)

### Abstract

We have witnessed significant progress in deep learning-based 3D vision,
ranging from neural radiance field (NeRF) based 3D representation learning to
applications in novel view synthesis (NVS). However, existing scene-level
datasets for deep learning-based 3D vision, limited to either synthetic
environments or a narrow selection of real-world scenes, are quite
insufficient. This insufficiency not only hinders a comprehensive benchmark of
existing methods but also caps what could be explored in deep learning-based 3D
analysis. To address this critical gap, we present DL3DV-10K, a large-scale
scene dataset, featuring 51.2 million frames from 10,510 videos captured from
65 types of point-of-interest (POI) locations, covering both bounded and
unbounded scenes, with different levels of reflection, transparency, and
lighting. We conducted a comprehensive benchmark of recent NVS methods on
DL3DV-10K, which revealed valuable insights for future research in NVS. In
addition, we have obtained encouraging results in a pilot study to learn
generalizable NeRF from DL3DV-10K, which manifests the necessity of a
large-scale scene-level dataset to forge a path toward a foundation model for
learning 3D representation. Our DL3DV-10K dataset, benchmark results, and
models will be publicly accessible at https://dl3dv-10k.github.io/DL3DV-10K/.

---

## 8. [City-on-Web: Real-time Neural Rendering of Large-scale Scenes on the Web](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16457)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16457](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16457)

**Authors**: Kaiwen Song, Juyong Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/USTC3DV/MERFStudio)

### Abstract

NeRF has significantly advanced 3D scene reconstruction, capturing intricate
details across various environments. Existing methods have successfully
leveraged radiance field baking to facilitate real-time rendering of small
scenes. However, when applied to large-scale scenes, these techniques encounter
significant challenges, struggling to provide a seamless real-time experience
due to limited resources in computation, memory, and bandwidth. In this paper,
we propose City-on-Web, which represents the whole scene by partitioning it
into manageable blocks, each with its own Level-of-Detail, ensuring high
fidelity, efficient memory management and fast rendering. Meanwhile, we
carefully design the training and inference process such that the final
rendering result on web is consistent with training. Thanks to our novel
representation and carefully designed training/inference process, we are the
first to achieve real-time rendering of large-scale scenes in
resource-constrained environments. Extensive experimental results demonstrate
that our method facilitates real-time rendering of large-scale scenes on a web
platform, achieving 32FPS at 1080P resolution with an RTX 3060 GPU, while
simultaneously achieving a quality that closely rivals that of state-of-the-art
methods. Project page: https://ustc3dv.github.io/City-on-Web/

---

## 9. [I2V-Adapter: A General Image-to-Video Adapter for Video Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16693)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16693](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16693)

**Authors**: Xun Guo, Mingwu Zheng, Liang Hou, Yuan Gao, Yufan Deng, Chongyang Ma, Weiming Hu, Zhengjun Zha, Haibin Huang, Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/KwaiVGI/I2V-Adapter)

### Abstract

In the rapidly evolving domain of digital content generation, the focus has
shifted from text-to-image (T2I) models to more advanced video diffusion
models, notably text-to-video (T2V) and image-to-video (I2V). This paper
addresses the intricate challenge posed by I2V: converting static images into
dynamic, lifelike video sequences while preserving the original image fidelity.
Traditional methods typically involve integrating entire images into diffusion
processes or using pretrained encoders for cross attention. However, these
approaches often necessitate altering the fundamental weights of T2I models,
thereby restricting their reusability. We introduce a novel solution, namely
I2V-Adapter, designed to overcome such limitations. Our approach preserves the
structural integrity of T2I models and their inherent motion modules. The
I2V-Adapter operates by processing noised video frames in parallel with the
input image, utilizing a lightweight adapter module. This module acts as a
bridge, efficiently linking the input to the model's self-attention mechanism,
thus maintaining spatial details without requiring structural changes to the
T2I model. Moreover, I2V-Adapter requires only a fraction of the parameters of
conventional models and ensures compatibility with existing community-driven
T2I models and controlling tools. Our experimental results demonstrate
I2V-Adapter's capability to produce high-quality video outputs. This
performance, coupled with its versatility and reduced need for trainable
parameters, represents a substantial advancement in the field of AI-driven
video generation, particularly for creative applications.

---

## 10. [InsActor: Instruction-driven Physics-based Characters](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17135)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17135](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17135)

**Authors**: Jiawei Ren, Mingyuan Zhang, Cunjun Yu, Xiao Ma, Liang Pan, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Generating animation of physics-based characters with intuitive control has
long been a desirable task with numerous applications. However, generating
physically simulated animations that reflect high-level human instructions
remains a difficult problem due to the complexity of physical environments and
the richness of human language. In this paper, we present InsActor, a
principled generative framework that leverages recent advancements in
diffusion-based human motion models to produce instruction-driven animations of
physics-based characters. Our framework empowers InsActor to capture complex
relationships between high-level human instructions and character motions by
employing diffusion policies for flexibly conditioned motion planning. To
overcome invalid states and infeasible state transitions in planned motions,
InsActor discovers low-level skills and maps plans to latent skill sequences in
a compact latent space. Extensive experiments demonstrate that InsActor
achieves state-of-the-art results on various tasks, including
instruction-driven motion generation and instruction-driven waypoint heading.
Notably, the ability of InsActor to generate physically simulated animations
using high-level human instructions makes it a valuable tool, particularly in
executing long-horizon tasks with a rich set of instructions.

---

## 11. [Spacetime Gaussian Feature Splatting for Real-Time Dynamic View
  Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16812)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16812](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16812)

**Authors**: Zhan Li, Zhang Chen, Zhong Li, Yi Xu

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/oppo-us-research/spacetimegaussians)

### Abstract

Novel view synthesis of dynamic scenes has been an intriguing yet challenging
problem. Despite recent advancements, simultaneously achieving high-resolution
photorealistic results, real-time rendering, and compact storage remains a
formidable task. To address these challenges, we propose Spacetime Gaussian
Feature Splatting as a novel dynamic scene representation, composed of three
pivotal components. First, we formulate expressive Spacetime Gaussians by
enhancing 3D Gaussians with temporal opacity and parametric motion/rotation.
This enables Spacetime Gaussians to capture static, dynamic, as well as
transient content within a scene. Second, we introduce splatted feature
rendering, which replaces spherical harmonics with neural features. These
features facilitate the modeling of view- and time-dependent appearance while
maintaining small size. Third, we leverage the guidance of training error and
coarse depth to sample new Gaussians in areas that are challenging to converge
with existing pipelines. Experiments on several established real-world datasets
demonstrate that our method achieves state-of-the-art rendering quality and
speed, while retaining compact storage. At 8K resolution, our lite-version
model can render at 60 FPS on an Nvidia RTX 4090 GPU.

---

## 12. [The LLM Surgeon](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17244)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17244](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17244)

**Authors**: Tycho F. A. van der Ouderaa, Markus Nagel, Mart van Baalen, Yuki M. Asano, Tijmen Blankevoort

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/qualcomm-ai-research/llm-surgeon)

### Abstract

State-of-the-art language models are becoming increasingly large in an effort
to achieve the highest performance on large corpora of available textual data.
However, the sheer size of the Transformer architectures makes it difficult to
deploy models within computational, environmental or device-specific
constraints. We explore data-driven compression of existing pretrained models
as an alternative to training smaller models from scratch. To do so, we scale
Kronecker-factored curvature approximations of the target loss landscape to
large language models. In doing so, we can compute both the dynamic allocation
of structures that can be removed as well as updates of remaining weights that
account for the removal. We provide a general framework for unstructured,
semi-structured and structured pruning and improve upon weight updates to
capture more correlations between weights, while remaining computationally
efficient. Experimentally, our method can prune rows and columns from a range
of OPT models and Llamav2-7B by 20%-30%, with a negligible loss in performance,
and achieve state-of-the-art results in unstructured and semi-structured
pruning of large language models.

---

## 13. [Compact Neural Graphics Primitives with Learned Hash Probing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17241)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17241](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17241)

**Authors**: Towaki Takikawa, Thomas Müller, Merlin Nimier-David, Alex Evans, Sanja Fidler, Alec Jacobson, Alexander Keller

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Neural graphics primitives are faster and achieve higher quality when their
neural networks are augmented by spatial data structures that hold trainable
features arranged in a grid. However, existing feature grids either come with a
large memory footprint (dense or factorized grids, trees, and hash tables) or
slow performance (index learning and vector quantization). In this paper, we
show that a hash table with learned probes has neither disadvantage, resulting
in a favorable combination of size and speed. Inference is faster than unprobed
hash tables at equal quality while training is only 1.2-2.6x slower,
significantly outperforming prior index learning approaches. We arrive at this
formulation by casting all feature grids into a common framework: they each
correspond to a lookup function that indexes into a table of feature vectors.
In this framework, the lookup functions of existing data structures can be
combined by simple arithmetic combinations of their indices, resulting in
Pareto optimal compression and speed.

---

## 14. [Hyper-VolTran: Fast and Generalizable One-Shot Image to 3D Object
  Structure via HyperNetworks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16218)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16218](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16218)

**Authors**: Christian Simon, Sen He, Juan-Manuel Perez-Rua, Frost Xu, Amine Benhalloum, Tao Xiang

**Published**: 2023-12-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Solving image-to-3D from a single view is an ill-posed problem, and current
neural reconstruction methods addressing it through diffusion models still rely
on scene-specific optimization, constraining their generalization capability.
To overcome the limitations of existing approaches regarding generalization and
consistency, we introduce a novel neural rendering technique. Our approach
employs the signed distance function as the surface representation and
incorporates generalizable priors through geometry-encoding volumes and
HyperNetworks. Specifically, our method builds neural encoding volumes from
generated multi-view inputs. We adjust the weights of the SDF network
conditioned on an input image at test-time to allow model adaptation to novel
scenes in a feed-forward manner via HyperNetworks. To mitigate artifacts
derived from the synthesized views, we propose the use of a volume transformer
module to improve the aggregation of image features instead of processing each
viewpoint separately. Through our proposed method, dubbed as Hyper-VolTran, we
avoid the bottleneck of scene-specific optimization and maintain consistency
across the images generated from multiple viewpoints. Our experiments show the
advantages of our proposed approach with consistent results and rapid
generation.

---

## 15. [PanGu-Draw: Advancing Resource-Efficient Text-to-Image Synthesis with
  Time-Decoupled Training and Reusable Coop-Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16486)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16486](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16486)

**Authors**: Guansong Lu, Yuanfan Guo, Jianhua Han, Minzhe Niu, Yihan Zeng, Songcen Xu, Zeyi Huang, Zhao Zhong, Wei Zhang, Hang Xu

**Published**: 2023-12-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Current large-scale diffusion models represent a giant leap forward in
conditional image synthesis, capable of interpreting diverse cues like text,
human poses, and edges. However, their reliance on substantial computational
resources and extensive data collection remains a bottleneck. On the other
hand, the integration of existing diffusion models, each specialized for
different controls and operating in unique latent spaces, poses a challenge due
to incompatible image resolutions and latent space embedding structures,
hindering their joint use. Addressing these constraints, we present
"PanGu-Draw", a novel latent diffusion model designed for resource-efficient
text-to-image synthesis that adeptly accommodates multiple control signals. We
first propose a resource-efficient Time-Decoupling Training Strategy, which
splits the monolithic text-to-image model into structure and texture
generators. Each generator is trained using a regimen that maximizes data
utilization and computational efficiency, cutting data preparation by 48% and
reducing training resources by 51%. Secondly, we introduce "Coop-Diffusion", an
algorithm that enables the cooperative use of various pre-trained diffusion
models with different latent spaces and predefined resolutions within a unified
denoising process. This allows for multi-control image synthesis at arbitrary
resolutions without the necessity for additional data or retraining. Empirical
validations of Pangu-Draw show its exceptional prowess in text-to-image and
multi-control image generation, suggesting a promising direction for future
model training efficiencies and generation versatility. The largest 5B T2I
PanGu-Draw model is released on the Ascend platform. Project page:
https://pangu-draw.github.io

---

## 16. [SSR-Encoder: Encoding Selective Subject Representation for
  Subject-Driven Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16272)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16272](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16272)

**Authors**: Yuxuan Zhang, Jiaming Liu, Yiren Song, Rui Wang, Hao Tang, Jinpeng Yu, Huaxia Li, Xu Tang, Yao Hu, Han Pan, Zhongliang Jing

**Published**: 2023-12-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Xiaojiu-z/SSR_Encoder)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in subject-driven image generation have led to zero-shot
generation, yet precise selection and focus on crucial subject representations
remain challenging. Addressing this, we introduce the SSR-Encoder, a novel
architecture designed for selectively capturing any subject from single or
multiple reference images. It responds to various query modalities including
text and masks, without necessitating test-time fine-tuning. The SSR-Encoder
combines a Token-to-Patch Aligner that aligns query inputs with image patches
and a Detail-Preserving Subject Encoder for extracting and preserving fine
features of the subjects, thereby generating subject embeddings. These
embeddings, used in conjunction with original text embeddings, condition the
generation process. Characterized by its model generalizability and efficiency,
the SSR-Encoder adapts to a range of custom models and control modules.
Enhanced by the Embedding Consistency Regularization Loss for improved
training, our extensive experiments demonstrate its effectiveness in versatile
and high-quality image generation, indicating its broad applicability. Project
page: https://ssr-encoder.github.io

---

## 17. [DiffusionGAN3D: Boosting Text-guided 3D Generation and Domain Adaption
  by Combining 3D GANs and Diffusion Priors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16837)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16837](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16837)

**Authors**: Biwen Lei, Kai Yu, Mengyang Feng, Miaomiao Cui, Xuansong Xie

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Text-guided domain adaption and generation of 3D-aware portraits find many
applications in various fields. However, due to the lack of training data and
the challenges in handling the high variety of geometry and appearance, the
existing methods for these tasks suffer from issues like inflexibility,
instability, and low fidelity. In this paper, we propose a novel framework
DiffusionGAN3D, which boosts text-guided 3D domain adaption and generation by
combining 3D GANs and diffusion priors. Specifically, we integrate the
pre-trained 3D generative models (e.g., EG3D) and text-to-image diffusion
models. The former provides a strong foundation for stable and high-quality
avatar generation from text. And the diffusion models in turn offer powerful
priors and guide the 3D generator finetuning with informative direction to
achieve flexible and efficient text-guided domain adaption. To enhance the
diversity in domain adaption and the generation capability in text-to-avatar,
we introduce the relative distance loss and case-specific learnable triplane
respectively. Besides, we design a progressive texture refinement module to
improve the texture quality for both tasks above. Extensive experiments
demonstrate that the proposed framework achieves excellent results in both
domain adaption and text-to-avatar tasks, outperforming existing methods in
terms of generation quality and efficiency. The project homepage is at
https://younglbw.github.io/DiffusionGAN3D-homepage/.

---

## 18. [Prompt Expansion for Adaptive Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16720)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16720](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16720)

**Authors**: Siddhartha Datta, Alexander Ku, Deepak Ramachandran, Peter Anderson

**Published**: 2023-12-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Text-to-image generation models are powerful but difficult to use. Users
craft specific prompts to get better images, though the images can be
repetitive. This paper proposes a Prompt Expansion framework that helps users
generate high-quality, diverse images with less effort. The Prompt Expansion
model takes a text query as input and outputs a set of expanded text prompts
that are optimized such that when passed to a text-to-image model, generates a
wider variety of appealing images. We conduct a human evaluation study that
shows that images generated through Prompt Expansion are more aesthetically
pleasing and diverse than those generated by baseline methods. Overall, this
paper presents a novel and effective approach to improving the text-to-image
generation experience.

---

## 19. [Restoration by Generation with Constrained Priors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17161)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17161](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17161)

**Authors**: Zheng Ding, Xuaner Zhang, Zhuowen Tu, Zhihao Xia

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

The inherent generative power of denoising diffusion models makes them
well-suited for image restoration tasks where the objective is to find the
optimal high-quality image within the generative space that closely resembles
the input image. We propose a method to adapt a pretrained diffusion model for
image restoration by simply adding noise to the input image to be restored and
then denoise. Our method is based on the observation that the space of a
generative model needs to be constrained. We impose this constraint by
finetuning the generative model with a set of anchor images that capture the
characteristics of the input image. With the constrained space, we can then
leverage the sampling strategy used for generation to do image restoration. We
evaluate against previous methods and show superior performances on multiple
real-world restoration datasets in preserving identity and image quality. We
also demonstrate an important and practical application on personalized
restoration, where we use a personal album as the anchor images to constrain
the generative space. This approach allows us to produce results that
accurately preserve high-frequency details, which previous works are unable to
do. Project webpage: https://gen2res.github.io.

---
