# Daily Papers - 2023-12-05

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-05)

Total papers: 33

---

## 1. [Magicoder: Source Code Is All You Need](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02120)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02120](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02120)

**Authors**: Yuxiang Wei, Zhe Wang, Jiawei Liu, Yifeng Ding, Lingming Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 82

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ise-uiuc/magicoder)

### Abstract

We introduce Magicoder, a series of fully open-source (code, weights, and
data) Large Language Models (LLMs) for code that significantly closes the gap
with top code models while having no more than 7B parameters. Magicoder models
are trained on 75K synthetic instruction data using OSS-Instruct, a novel
approach to enlightening LLMs with open-source code snippets to generate
high-quality instruction data for code. Our main motivation is to mitigate the
inherent bias of the synthetic data generated by LLMs by empowering them with a
wealth of open-source references for the production of more diverse, realistic,
and controllable data. The orthogonality of OSS-Instruct and other data
generation methods like Evol-Instruct further enables us to build an enhanced
MagicoderS. Both Magicoder and MagicoderS substantially outperform
state-of-the-art code models with similar or even larger sizes on a wide range
of coding benchmarks, including Python text-to-code generation, multilingual
coding, and data-science program completion. Notably, MagicoderS-CL-7B based on
CodeLlama even surpasses the prominent ChatGPT on HumanEval+ (66.5 vs. 65.9 in
pass@1). Overall, OSS-Instruct opens a new direction for low-bias and
high-quality instruction tuning using abundant open-source references.

---

## 2. [VMC: Video Motion Customization using Temporal Attention Adaption for
  Text-to-Video Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00845)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00845](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00845)

**Authors**: Hyeonho Jeong, Geon Yeong Park, Jong Chul Ye

**Published**: 2023-12-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 39

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/HyeonHo99/Video-Motion-Customization)

### Abstract

Text-to-video diffusion models have advanced video generation significantly.
However, customizing these models to generate videos with tailored motions
presents a substantial challenge. In specific, they encounter hurdles in (a)
accurately reproducing motion from a target video, and (b) creating diverse
visual variations. For example, straightforward extensions of static image
customization methods to video often lead to intricate entanglements of
appearance and motion data. To tackle this, here we present the Video Motion
Customization (VMC) framework, a novel one-shot tuning approach crafted to
adapt temporal attention layers within video diffusion models. Our approach
introduces a novel motion distillation objective using residual vectors between
consecutive frames as a motion reference. The diffusion process then preserves
low-frequency motion trajectories while mitigating high-frequency
motion-unrelated noise in image space. We validate our method against
state-of-the-art video generative models across diverse real-world motions and
contexts. Our codes, data and the project demo can be found at
https://video-motion-customization.github.io

---

## 3. [FaceStudio: Put Your Face Everywhere in Seconds](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02663)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02663](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02663)

**Authors**: Yuxuan Yan, Chi Zhang, Rui Wang, Pei Cheng, Gang Yu, Bin Fu

**Published**: 2023-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xyynafc/FaceStudio)

### Abstract

This study investigates identity-preserving image synthesis, an intriguing
task in image generation that seeks to maintain a subject's identity while
adding a personalized, stylistic touch. Traditional methods, such as Textual
Inversion and DreamBooth, have made strides in custom image creation, but they
come with significant drawbacks. These include the need for extensive resources
and time for fine-tuning, as well as the requirement for multiple reference
images. To overcome these challenges, our research introduces a novel approach
to identity-preserving synthesis, with a particular focus on human images. Our
model leverages a direct feed-forward mechanism, circumventing the need for
intensive fine-tuning, thereby facilitating quick and efficient image
generation. Central to our innovation is a hybrid guidance framework, which
combines stylized images, facial images, and textual prompts to guide the image
generation process. This unique combination enables our model to produce a
variety of applications, such as artistic portraits and identity-blended
images. Our experimental results, including both qualitative and quantitative
evaluations, demonstrate the superiority of our method over existing baseline
models and previous works, particularly in its remarkable efficiency and
ability to preserve the subject's identity with high fidelity.

---

## 4. [The Unlocking Spell on Base LLMs: Rethinking Alignment via In-Context
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.01552)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.01552](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01552)

**Authors**: Bill Yuchen Lin, Abhilasha Ravichander, Ximing Lu, Nouha Dziri, Melanie Sclar, Khyathi Chandu, Chandra Bhagavatula, Yejin Choi

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/re-align/urial)

### Abstract

The alignment tuning process of large language models (LLMs) typically
involves instruction learning through supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and
preference tuning via reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF). A
recent study, LIMA (Zhou et al. 2023), shows that using merely 1K examples for
SFT can achieve significant alignment performance as well, suggesting that the
effect of alignment tuning might be "superficial." This raises questions about
how exactly the alignment tuning transforms a base LLM.
  We analyze the effect of alignment tuning by examining the token distribution
shift between base LLMs and their aligned counterpart. Our findings reveal that
base LLMs and their alignment-tuned versions perform nearly identically in
decoding on the majority of token positions. Most distribution shifts occur
with stylistic tokens. These direct evidence strongly supports the Superficial
Alignment Hypothesis suggested by LIMA.
  Based on these findings, we rethink the alignment of LLMs by posing the
research question: how effectively can we align base LLMs without SFT or RLHF?
To address this, we introduce a simple, tuning-free alignment method, URIAL.
URIAL achieves effective alignment purely through in-context learning (ICL)
with base LLMs, requiring as few as three constant stylistic examples and a
system prompt. We conduct a fine-grained and interpretable evaluation on a
diverse set of examples, named JUST-EVAL-INSTRUCT. Results demonstrate that
base LLMs with URIAL can match or even surpass the performance of LLMs aligned
with SFT or SFT+RLHF. We show that the gap between tuning-free and tuning-based
alignment methods can be significantly reduced through strategic prompting and
ICL. Our findings on the superficial nature of alignment tuning and results
with URIAL suggest that deeper analysis and theoretical understanding of
alignment is crucial to future LLM research.

---

## 5. [DeepCache: Accelerating Diffusion Models for Free](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00858)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00858](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00858)

**Authors**: Xinyin Ma, Gongfan Fang, Xinchao Wang

**Published**: 2023-12-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/horseee/deepcache)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have recently gained unprecedented attention in the field of
image synthesis due to their remarkable generative capabilities.
Notwithstanding their prowess, these models often incur substantial
computational costs, primarily attributed to the sequential denoising process
and cumbersome model size. Traditional methods for compressing diffusion models
typically involve extensive retraining, presenting cost and feasibility
challenges. In this paper, we introduce DeepCache, a novel training-free
paradigm that accelerates diffusion models from the perspective of model
architecture. DeepCache capitalizes on the inherent temporal redundancy
observed in the sequential denoising steps of diffusion models, which caches
and retrieves features across adjacent denoising stages, thereby curtailing
redundant computations. Utilizing the property of the U-Net, we reuse the
high-level features while updating the low-level features in a very cheap way.
This innovative strategy, in turn, enables a speedup factor of 2.3times for
Stable Diffusion v1.5 with only a 0.05 decline in CLIP Score, and 4.1times
for LDM-4-G with a slight decrease of 0.22 in FID on ImageNet. Our experiments
also demonstrate DeepCache's superiority over existing pruning and distillation
methods that necessitate retraining and its compatibility with current sampling
techniques. Furthermore, we find that under the same throughput, DeepCache
effectively achieves comparable or even marginally improved results with DDIM
or PLMS. The code is available at https://github.com/horseee/DeepCache

---

## 6. [VideoSwap: Customized Video Subject Swapping with Interactive Semantic
  Point Correspondence](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02087)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02087](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02087)

**Authors**: Yuchao Gu, Yipin Zhou, Bichen Wu, Licheng Yu, Jia-Wei Liu, Rui Zhao, Jay Zhangjie Wu, David Junhao Zhang, Mike Zheng Shou, Kevin Tang

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Current diffusion-based video editing primarily focuses on
structure-preserved editing by utilizing various dense correspondences to
ensure temporal consistency and motion alignment. However, these approaches are
often ineffective when the target edit involves a shape change. To embark on
video editing with shape change, we explore customized video subject swapping
in this work, where we aim to replace the main subject in a source video with a
target subject having a distinct identity and potentially different shape. In
contrast to previous methods that rely on dense correspondences, we introduce
the VideoSwap framework that exploits semantic point correspondences, inspired
by our observation that only a small number of semantic points are necessary to
align the subject's motion trajectory and modify its shape. We also introduce
various user-point interactions (\eg, removing points and dragging points) to
address various semantic point correspondence. Extensive experiments
demonstrate state-of-the-art video subject swapping results across a variety of
real-world videos.

---

## 7. [Segment and Caption Anything](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00869)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00869](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00869)

**Authors**: Xiaoke Huang, Jianfeng Wang, Yansong Tang, Zheng Zhang, Han Hu, Jiwen Lu, Lijuan Wang, Zicheng Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xk-huang/segment-caption-anything)

### Abstract

We propose a method to efficiently equip the Segment Anything Model (SAM)
with the ability to generate regional captions. SAM presents strong
generalizability to segment anything while is short for semantic understanding.
By introducing a lightweight query-based feature mixer, we align the
region-specific features with the embedding space of language models for later
caption generation. As the number of trainable parameters is small (typically
in the order of tens of millions), it costs less computation, less memory
usage, and less communication bandwidth, resulting in both fast and scalable
training. To address the scarcity problem of regional caption data, we propose
to first pre-train our model on objection detection and segmentation tasks. We
call this step weak supervision pretraining since the pre-training data only
contains category names instead of full-sentence descriptions. The weak
supervision pretraining allows us to leverage many publicly available object
detection and segmentation datasets. We conduct extensive experiments to
demonstrate the superiority of our method and validate each design choice. This
work serves as a stepping stone towards scaling up regional captioning data and
sheds light on exploring efficient ways to augment SAM with regional semantics.
The project page, along with the associated code, can be accessed via the
following https://xk-huang.github.io/segment-caption-anything/.

---

## 8. [LivePhoto: Real Image Animation with Text-guided Motion Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02928)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02928](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02928)

**Authors**: Xi Chen, Zhiheng Liu, Mengting Chen, Yutong Feng, Yu Liu, Yujun Shen, Hengshuang Zhao

**Published**: 2023-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Despite the recent progress in text-to-video generation, existing studies
usually overlook the issue that only spatial contents but not temporal motions
in synthesized videos are under the control of text. Towards such a challenge,
this work presents a practical system, named LivePhoto, which allows users to
animate an image of their interest with text descriptions. We first establish a
strong baseline that helps a well-learned text-to-image generator (i.e., Stable
Diffusion) take an image as a further input. We then equip the improved
generator with a motion module for temporal modeling and propose a carefully
designed training pipeline to better link texts and motions. In particular,
considering the facts that (1) text can only describe motions roughly (e.g.,
regardless of the moving speed) and (2) text may include both content and
motion descriptions, we introduce a motion intensity estimation module as well
as a text re-weighting module to reduce the ambiguity of text-to-motion
mapping. Empirical evidence suggests that our approach is capable of well
decoding motion-related textual instructions into videos, such as actions,
camera movements, or even conjuring new contents from thin air (e.g., pouring
water into an empty glass). Interestingly, thanks to the proposed intensity
learning mechanism, our system offers users an additional control signal (i.e.,
the motion intensity) besides text for video customization.

---

## 9. [Nash Learning from Human Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00886)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00886](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00886)

**Authors**: Rémi Munos, Michal Valko, Daniele Calandriello, Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar, Mark Rowland, Daniel Guo, Yunhao Tang, Matthieu Geist, Thomas Mésnard, Andrea Michi, Marco Selvi, Sertan Girgin, Nikola Momchev, Olivier Bachem, Daniel J. Mankowitz, Doina Precup, Bilal Piot

**Published**: 2023-12-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has emerged as the main
paradigm for aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences.
Typically, RLHF involves the initial step of learning a reward model from human
feedback, often expressed as preferences between pairs of text generations
produced by a pre-trained LLM. Subsequently, the LLM's policy is fine-tuned by
optimizing it to maximize the reward model through a reinforcement learning
algorithm. However, an inherent limitation of current reward models is their
inability to fully represent the richness of human preferences and their
dependency on the sampling distribution.
  In this study, we introduce an alternative pipeline for the fine-tuning of
LLMs using pairwise human feedback. Our approach entails the initial learning
of a preference model, which is conditioned on two inputs given a prompt,
followed by the pursuit of a policy that consistently generates responses
preferred over those generated by any competing policy, thus defining the Nash
equilibrium of this preference model. We term this approach Nash learning from
human feedback (NLHF).
  In the context of a tabular policy representation, we present a novel
algorithmic solution, Nash-MD, founded on the principles of mirror descent.
This algorithm produces a sequence of policies, with the last iteration
converging to the regularized Nash equilibrium. Additionally, we explore
parametric representations of policies and introduce gradient descent
algorithms for deep-learning architectures. To demonstrate the effectiveness of
our approach, we present experimental results involving the fine-tuning of a
LLM for a text summarization task. We believe NLHF offers a compelling avenue
for preference learning and policy optimization with the potential of advancing
the field of aligning LLMs with human preferences.

---

## 10. [Describing Differences in Image Sets with Natural Language](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02974)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02974](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02974)

**Authors**: Lisa Dunlap, Yuhui Zhang, Xiaohan Wang, Ruiqi Zhong, Trevor Darrell, Jacob Steinhardt, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Serena Yeung-Levy

**Published**: 2023-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/understanding-visual-datasets/visdiff)

### Abstract

How do two sets of images differ? Discerning set-level differences is crucial
for understanding model behaviors and analyzing datasets, yet manually sifting
through thousands of images is impractical. To aid in this discovery process,
we explore the task of automatically describing the differences between two
sets of images, which we term Set Difference Captioning. This task
takes in image sets D_A and D_B, and outputs a description that is more
often true on D_A than D_B. We outline a two-stage approach that first
proposes candidate difference descriptions from image sets and then re-ranks
the candidates by checking how well they can differentiate the two sets. We
introduce VisDiff, which first captions the images and prompts a language model
to propose candidate descriptions, then re-ranks these descriptions using CLIP.
To evaluate VisDiff, we collect VisDiffBench, a dataset with 187 paired image
sets with ground truth difference descriptions. We apply VisDiff to various
domains, such as comparing datasets (e.g., ImageNet vs. ImageNetV2), comparing
classification models (e.g., zero-shot CLIP vs. supervised ResNet), summarizing
model failure modes (supervised ResNet), characterizing differences between
generative models (e.g., StableDiffusionV1 and V2), and discovering what makes
images memorable. Using VisDiff, we are able to find interesting and previously
unknown differences in datasets and models, demonstrating its utility in
revealing nuanced insights.

---

## 11. [DiffiT: Diffusion Vision Transformers for Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02139)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02139](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02139)

**Authors**: Ali Hatamizadeh, Jiaming Song, Guilin Liu, Jan Kautz, Arash Vahdat

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nvlabs/diffit)

### Abstract

Diffusion models with their powerful expressivity and high sample quality
have enabled many new applications and use-cases in various domains. For sample
generation, these models rely on a denoising neural network that generates
images by iterative denoising. Yet, the role of denoising network architecture
is not well-studied with most efforts relying on convolutional residual U-Nets.
In this paper, we study the effectiveness of vision transformers in
diffusion-based generative learning. Specifically, we propose a new model,
denoted as Diffusion Vision Transformers (DiffiT), which consists of a hybrid
hierarchical architecture with a U-shaped encoder and decoder. We introduce a
novel time-dependent self-attention module that allows attention layers to
adapt their behavior at different stages of the denoising process in an
efficient manner. We also introduce latent DiffiT which consists of transformer
model with the proposed self-attention layers, for high-resolution image
generation. Our results show that DiffiT is surprisingly effective in
generating high-fidelity images, and it achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA)
benchmarks on a variety of class-conditional and unconditional synthesis tasks.
In the latent space, DiffiT achieves a new SOTA FID score of 1.73 on
ImageNet-256 dataset. Repository: https://github.com/NVlabs/DiffiT

---

## 12. [Rank-without-GPT: Building GPT-Independent Listwise Rerankers on
  Open-Source Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02969)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02969](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02969)

**Authors**: Xinyu Zhang, Sebastian Hofstätter, Patrick Lewis, Raphael Tang, Jimmy Lin

**Published**: 2023-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Listwise rerankers based on large language models (LLM) are the zero-shot
state-of-the-art. However, current works in this direction all depend on the
GPT models, making it a single point of failure in scientific reproducibility.
Moreover, it raises the concern that the current research findings only hold
for GPT models but not LLM in general. In this work, we lift this pre-condition
and build for the first time effective listwise rerankers without any form of
dependency on GPT. Our passage retrieval experiments show that our best list se
reranker surpasses the listwise rerankers based on GPT-3.5 by 13% and achieves
97% effectiveness of the ones built on GPT-4. Our results also show that the
existing training datasets, which were expressly constructed for pointwise
ranking, are insufficient for building such listwise rerankers. Instead,
high-quality listwise ranking data is required and crucial, calling for further
work on building human-annotated listwise data resources.

---

## 13. [LLaVA-Grounding: Grounded Visual Chat with Large Multimodal Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02949)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02949](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02949)

**Authors**: Hao Zhang, Hongyang Li, Feng Li, Tianhe Ren, Xueyan Zou, Shilong Liu, Shijia Huang, Lei Zhang, Chunyuan Li, Jianwei Yang

**Published**: 2023-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ux-decoder/llava-grounding)

### Abstract

With the recent significant advancements in large multi-modal models (LMMs),
the importance of their grounding capability in visual chat is increasingly
recognized. Despite recent efforts to enable LMMs to support grounding, their
capabilities for grounding and chat are usually separate, and their chat
performance drops dramatically when asked to ground. The problem is the lack of
a dataset for grounded visual chat (GVC). Existing grounding datasets only
contain short captions. To address this issue, we have created GVC data that
allows for the combination of grounding and chat capabilities. To better
evaluate the GVC capabilities, we have introduced a benchmark called
Grounding-Bench. Additionally, we have proposed a model design that can support
GVC and various types of visual prompts by connecting segmentation models with
language models. Experimental results demonstrate that our model outperforms
other LMMs on Grounding-Bench. Furthermore, our model achieves competitive
performance on classic grounding benchmarks like RefCOCO/+/g and Flickr30K
Entities. Our code will be released at
https://github.com/UX-Decoder/LLaVA-Grounding .

---

## 14. [GPS-Gaussian: Generalizable Pixel-wise 3D Gaussian Splatting for
  Real-time Human Novel View Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02155)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02155](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02155)

**Authors**: Shunyuan Zheng, Boyao Zhou, Ruizhi Shao, Boning Liu, Shengping Zhang, Liqiang Nie, Yebin Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aipixel/gps-gaussian)

### Abstract

We present a new approach, termed GPS-Gaussian, for synthesizing novel views
of a character in a real-time manner. The proposed method enables 2K-resolution
rendering under a sparse-view camera setting. Unlike the original Gaussian
Splatting or neural implicit rendering methods that necessitate per-subject
optimizations, we introduce Gaussian parameter maps defined on the source views
and regress directly Gaussian Splatting properties for instant novel view
synthesis without any fine-tuning or optimization. To this end, we train our
Gaussian parameter regression module on a large amount of human scan data,
jointly with a depth estimation module to lift 2D parameter maps to 3D space.
The proposed framework is fully differentiable and experiments on several
datasets demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods while
achieving an exceeding rendering speed.

---

## 15. [Fine-grained Controllable Video Generation via Object Appearance and
  Context](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02919)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02919](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02919)

**Authors**: Hsin-Ping Huang, Yu-Chuan Su, Deqing Sun, Lu Jiang, Xuhui Jia, Yukun Zhu, Ming-Hsuan Yang

**Published**: 2023-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Text-to-video generation has shown promising results. However, by taking only
natural languages as input, users often face difficulties in providing detailed
information to precisely control the model's output. In this work, we propose
fine-grained controllable video generation (FACTOR) to achieve detailed
control. Specifically, FACTOR aims to control objects' appearances and context,
including their location and category, in conjunction with the text prompt. To
achieve detailed control, we propose a unified framework to jointly inject
control signals into the existing text-to-video model. Our model consists of a
joint encoder and adaptive cross-attention layers. By optimizing the encoder
and the inserted layer, we adapt the model to generate videos that are aligned
with both text prompts and fine-grained control. Compared to existing methods
relying on dense control signals such as edge maps, we provide a more intuitive
and user-friendly interface to allow object-level fine-grained control. Our
method achieves controllability of object appearances without finetuning, which
reduces the per-subject optimization efforts for the users. Extensive
experiments on standard benchmark datasets and user-provided inputs validate
that our model obtains a 70% improvement in controllability metrics over
competitive baselines.

---

## 16. [Object Recognition as Next Token Prediction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02142)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02142](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02142)

**Authors**: Kaiyu Yue, Bor-Chun Chen, Jonas Geiping, Hengduo Li, Tom Goldstein, Ser-Nam Lim

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kaiyuyue/nxtp)

### Abstract

We present an approach to pose object recognition as next token prediction.
The idea is to apply a language decoder that auto-regressively predicts the
text tokens from image embeddings to form labels. To ground this prediction
process in auto-regression, we customize a non-causal attention mask for the
decoder, incorporating two key features: modeling tokens from different labels
to be independent, and treating image tokens as a prefix. This masking
mechanism inspires an efficient method - one-shot sampling - to simultaneously
sample tokens of multiple labels in parallel and rank generated labels by their
probabilities during inference. To further enhance the efficiency, we propose a
simple strategy to construct a compact decoder by simply discarding the
intermediate blocks of a pretrained language model. This approach yields a
decoder that matches the full model's performance while being notably more
efficient. The code is available at https://github.com/kaiyuyue/nxtp

---

## 17. [GIVT: Generative Infinite-Vocabulary Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02116)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02116](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02116)

**Authors**: Michael Tschannen, Cian Eastwood, Fabian Mentzer

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

We introduce generative infinite-vocabulary transformers (GIVT) which
generate vector sequences with real-valued entries, instead of discrete tokens
from a finite vocabulary. To this end, we propose two surprisingly simple
modifications to decoder-only transformers: 1) at the input, we replace the
finite-vocabulary lookup table with a linear projection of the input vectors;
and 2) at the output, we replace the logits prediction (usually mapped to a
categorical distribution) with the parameters of a multivariate Gaussian
mixture model. Inspired by the image-generation paradigm of VQ-GAN and MaskGIT,
where transformers are used to model the discrete latent sequences of a VQ-VAE,
we use GIVT to model the unquantized real-valued latent sequences of a VAE.
When applying GIVT to class-conditional image generation with iterative masked
modeling, we show competitive results with MaskGIT, while our approach
outperforms both VQ-GAN and MaskGIT when using it for causal modeling. Finally,
we obtain competitive results outside of image generation when applying our
approach to panoptic segmentation and depth estimation with a VAE-based variant
of the UViM framework.

---

## 18. [Style Aligned Image Generation via Shared Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02133)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02133](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02133)

**Authors**: Amir Hertz, Andrey Voynov, Shlomi Fruchter, Daniel Cohen-Or

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google/style-aligned)

### Abstract

Large-scale Text-to-Image (T2I) models have rapidly gained prominence across
creative fields, generating visually compelling outputs from textual prompts.
However, controlling these models to ensure consistent style remains
challenging, with existing methods necessitating fine-tuning and manual
intervention to disentangle content and style. In this paper, we introduce
StyleAligned, a novel technique designed to establish style alignment among a
series of generated images. By employing minimal `attention sharing' during the
diffusion process, our method maintains style consistency across images within
T2I models. This approach allows for the creation of style-consistent images
using a reference style through a straightforward inversion operation. Our
method's evaluation across diverse styles and text prompts demonstrates
high-quality synthesis and fidelity, underscoring its efficacy in achieving
consistent style across various inputs.

---

## 19. [StableDreamer: Taming Noisy Score Distillation Sampling for Text-to-3D](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02189)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02189](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02189)

**Authors**: Pengsheng Guo, Hans Hao, Adam Caccavale, Zhongzheng Ren, Edward Zhang, Qi Shan, Aditya Sankar, Alexander G. Schwing, Alex Colburn, Fangchang Ma

**Published**: 2023-12-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

In the realm of text-to-3D generation, utilizing 2D diffusion models through
score distillation sampling (SDS) frequently leads to issues such as blurred
appearances and multi-faced geometry, primarily due to the intrinsically noisy
nature of the SDS loss. Our analysis identifies the core of these challenges as
the interaction among noise levels in the 2D diffusion process, the
architecture of the diffusion network, and the 3D model representation. To
overcome these limitations, we present StableDreamer, a methodology
incorporating three advances. First, inspired by InstructNeRF2NeRF, we
formalize the equivalence of the SDS generative prior and a simple supervised
L2 reconstruction loss. This finding provides a novel tool to debug SDS, which
we use to show the impact of time-annealing noise levels on reducing
multi-faced geometries. Second, our analysis shows that while image-space
diffusion contributes to geometric precision, latent-space diffusion is crucial
for vivid color rendition. Based on this observation, StableDreamer introduces
a two-stage training strategy that effectively combines these aspects,
resulting in high-fidelity 3D models. Third, we adopt an anisotropic 3D
Gaussians representation, replacing Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs), to enhance
the overall quality, reduce memory usage during training, and accelerate
rendering speeds, and better capture semi-transparent objects. StableDreamer
reduces multi-face geometries, generates fine details, and converges stably.

---

## 20. [Fast View Synthesis of Casual Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02135)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02135](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02135)

**Authors**: Yao-Chih Lee, Zhoutong Zhang, Kevin Blackburn-Matzen, Simon Niklaus, Jianming Zhang, Jia-Bin Huang, Feng Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Novel view synthesis from an in-the-wild video is difficult due to challenges
like scene dynamics and lack of parallax. While existing methods have shown
promising results with implicit neural radiance fields, they are slow to train
and render. This paper revisits explicit video representations to synthesize
high-quality novel views from a monocular video efficiently. We treat static
and dynamic video content separately. Specifically, we build a global static
scene model using an extended plane-based scene representation to synthesize
temporally coherent novel video. Our plane-based scene representation is
augmented with spherical harmonics and displacement maps to capture
view-dependent effects and model non-planar complex surface geometry. We opt to
represent the dynamic content as per-frame point clouds for efficiency. While
such representations are inconsistency-prone, minor temporal inconsistencies
are perceptually masked due to motion. We develop a method to quickly estimate
such a hybrid video representation and render novel views in real time. Our
experiments show that our method can render high-quality novel views from an
in-the-wild video with comparable quality to state-of-the-art methods while
being 100x faster in training and enabling real-time rendering.

---

## 21. [Generative Rendering: Controllable 4D-Guided Video Generation with 2D
  Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.01409)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.01409](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01409)

**Authors**: Shengqu Cai, Duygu Ceylan, Matheus Gadelha, Chun-Hao Paul Huang, Tuanfeng Yang Wang, Gordon Wetzstein

**Published**: 2023-12-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Traditional 3D content creation tools empower users to bring their
imagination to life by giving them direct control over a scene's geometry,
appearance, motion, and camera path. Creating computer-generated videos,
however, is a tedious manual process, which can be automated by emerging
text-to-video diffusion models. Despite great promise, video diffusion models
are difficult to control, hindering a user to apply their own creativity rather
than amplifying it. To address this challenge, we present a novel approach that
combines the controllability of dynamic 3D meshes with the expressivity and
editability of emerging diffusion models. For this purpose, our approach takes
an animated, low-fidelity rendered mesh as input and injects the ground truth
correspondence information obtained from the dynamic mesh into various stages
of a pre-trained text-to-image generation model to output high-quality and
temporally consistent frames. We demonstrate our approach on various examples
where motion can be obtained by animating rigged assets or changing the camera
path.

---

## 22. [Axiomatic Preference Modeling for Longform Question Answering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02206)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02206](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02206)

**Authors**: Corby Rosset, Guoqing Zheng, Victor Dibia, Ahmed Awadallah, Paul Bennett

**Published**: 2023-12-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

The remarkable abilities of large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4 partially
stem from post-training processes like Reinforcement Learning from Human
Feedback (RLHF) involving human preferences encoded in a reward model. However,
these reward models (RMs) often lack direct knowledge of why, or under what
principles, the preferences annotations were made. In this study, we identify
principles that guide RMs to better align with human preferences, and then
develop an axiomatic framework to generate a rich variety of preference signals
to uphold them. We use these axiomatic signals to train a model for scoring
answers to longform questions. Our approach yields a Preference Model with only
about 220M parameters that agrees with gold human-annotated preference labels
more often than GPT-4. The contributions of this work include: training a
standalone preference model that can score human- and LLM-generated answers on
the same scale; developing an axiomatic framework for generating training data
pairs tailored to certain principles; and showing that a small amount of
axiomatic signals can help small models outperform GPT-4 in preference scoring.
We release our model on huggingface:
https://huggingface.co/corbyrosset/axiomatic_preference_model

---

## 23. [Segment Any 3D Gaussians](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00860)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00860](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00860)

**Authors**: Jiazhong Cen, Jiemin Fang, Chen Yang, Lingxi Xie, Xiaopeng Zhang, Wei Shen, Qi Tian

**Published**: 2023-12-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Interactive 3D segmentation in radiance fields is an appealing task since its
importance in 3D scene understanding and manipulation. However, existing
methods face challenges in either achieving fine-grained, multi-granularity
segmentation or contending with substantial computational overhead, inhibiting
real-time interaction. In this paper, we introduce Segment Any 3D GAussians
(SAGA), a novel 3D interactive segmentation approach that seamlessly blends a
2D segmentation foundation model with 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS), a recent
breakthrough of radiance fields. SAGA efficiently embeds multi-granularity 2D
segmentation results generated by the segmentation foundation model into 3D
Gaussian point features through well-designed contrastive training. Evaluation
on existing benchmarks demonstrates that SAGA can achieve competitive
performance with state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, SAGA achieves
multi-granularity segmentation and accommodates various prompts, including
points, scribbles, and 2D masks. Notably, SAGA can finish the 3D segmentation
within milliseconds, achieving nearly 1000x acceleration compared to previous
SOTA. The project page is at https://jumpat.github.io/SAGA.

---

## 24. [Training Chain-of-Thought via Latent-Variable Inference](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02179)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02179](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02179)

**Authors**: Du Phan, Matthew D. Hoffman, David Dohan, Sholto Douglas, Tuan Anh Le, Aaron Parisi, Pavel Sountsov, Charles Sutton, Sharad Vikram, Rif A. Saurous

**Published**: 2023-11-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) solve problems more accurately and interpretably
when instructed to work out the answer step by step using a
``chain-of-thought'' (CoT) prompt. One can also improve LLMs' performance on a
specific task by supervised fine-tuning, i.e., by using gradient ascent on some
tunable parameters to maximize the average log-likelihood of correct answers
from a labeled training set. Naively combining CoT with supervised tuning
requires supervision not just of the correct answers, but also of detailed
rationales that lead to those answers; these rationales are expensive to
produce by hand. Instead, we propose a fine-tuning strategy that tries to
maximize the marginal log-likelihood of generating a correct answer
using CoT prompting, approximately averaging over all possible rationales. The
core challenge is sampling from the posterior over rationales conditioned on
the correct answer; we address it using a simple Markov-chain Monte Carlo
(MCMC) expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm inspired by the self-taught
reasoner (STaR), memoized wake-sleep, Markovian score climbing, and persistent
contrastive divergence. This algorithm also admits a novel control-variate
technique that drives the variance of our gradient estimates to zero as the
model improves. Applying our technique to GSM8K and the tasks in BIG-Bench
Hard, we find that this MCMC-EM fine-tuning technique typically improves the
model's accuracy on held-out examples more than STaR or prompt-tuning with or
without CoT.

---

## 25. [GPT4Point: A Unified Framework for Point-Language Understanding and
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02980)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02980](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02980)

**Authors**: Zhangyang Qi, Ye Fang, Zeyi Sun, Xiaoyang Wu, Tong Wu, Jiaqi Wang, Dahua Lin, Hengshuang Zhao

**Published**: 2023-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have excelled in 2D image-text
comprehension and image generation, but their understanding of the 3D world is
notably deficient, limiting progress in 3D language understanding and
generation. To solve this problem, we introduce GPT4Point, an innovative
groundbreaking point-language multimodal model designed specifically for
unified 3D object understanding and generation within the MLLM framework.
GPT4Point as a powerful 3D MLLM seamlessly can execute a variety of point-text
reference tasks such as point-cloud captioning and Q&A. Additionally, GPT4Point
is equipped with advanced capabilities for controllable 3D generation, it can
get high-quality results through a low-quality point-text feature maintaining
the geometric shapes and colors. To support the expansive needs of 3D
object-text pairs, we develop Pyramid-XL, a point-language dataset annotation
engine. It constructs a large-scale database over 1M objects of varied text
granularity levels from the Objaverse-XL dataset, essential for training
GPT4Point. A comprehensive benchmark has been proposed to evaluate 3D
point-language understanding capabilities. In extensive evaluations, GPT4Point
has demonstrated superior performance in understanding and generation.

---

## 26. [WhisBERT: Multimodal Text-Audio Language Modeling on 100M Words](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02931)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02931](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02931)

**Authors**: Lukas Wolf, Klemen Kotar, Greta Tuckute, Eghbal Hosseini, Tamar Regev, Ethan Wilcox, Alex Warstadt

**Published**: 2023-12-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lu-wo/whisbert)

### Abstract

Training on multiple modalities of input can augment the capabilities of a
language model. Here, we ask whether such a training regime can improve the
quality and efficiency of these systems as well. We focus on text--audio and
introduce Whisbert, which is inspired by the text--image approach of FLAVA
singh_flava_2022. In accordance with Babylm warstadt2023papers
guidelines, we pretrain Whisbert on a dataset comprising only 100 million words
plus their corresponding speech from the word-aligned version of the People's
Speech dataset galvez_peoples_2021. To assess the impact of
multimodality, we compare versions of the model that are trained on text only
and on both audio and text simultaneously. We find that while Whisbert is able
to perform well on multimodal masked modeling and surpasses the Babylm
baselines in most benchmark tasks, it struggles to optimize its complex
objective and outperform its text-only Whisbert baseline.

---

## 27. [Generative Powers of Ten](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02149)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02149](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02149)

**Authors**: Xiaojuan Wang, Janne Kontkanen, Brian Curless, Steve Seitz, Ira Kemelmacher, Ben Mildenhall, Pratul Srinivasan, Dor Verbin, Aleksander Holynski

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

We present a method that uses a text-to-image model to generate consistent
content across multiple image scales, enabling extreme semantic zooms into a
scene, e.g., ranging from a wide-angle landscape view of a forest to a macro
shot of an insect sitting on one of the tree branches. We achieve this through
a joint multi-scale diffusion sampling approach that encourages consistency
across different scales while preserving the integrity of each individual
sampling process. Since each generated scale is guided by a different text
prompt, our method enables deeper levels of zoom than traditional
super-resolution methods that may struggle to create new contextual structure
at vastly different scales. We compare our method qualitatively with
alternative techniques in image super-resolution and outpainting, and show that
our method is most effective at generating consistent multi-scale content.

---

## 28. [VideoRF: Rendering Dynamic Radiance Fields as 2D Feature Video Streams](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.01407)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.01407](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01407)

**Authors**: Liao Wang, Kaixin Yao, Chengcheng Guo, Zhirui Zhang, Qiang Hu, Jingyi Yu, Lan Xu, Minye Wu

**Published**: 2023-12-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) excel in photorealistically rendering static
scenes. However, rendering dynamic, long-duration radiance fields on ubiquitous
devices remains challenging, due to data storage and computational constraints.
In this paper, we introduce VideoRF, the first approach to enable real-time
streaming and rendering of dynamic radiance fields on mobile platforms. At the
core is a serialized 2D feature image stream representing the 4D radiance field
all in one. We introduce a tailored training scheme directly applied to this 2D
domain to impose the temporal and spatial redundancy of the feature image
stream. By leveraging the redundancy, we show that the feature image stream can
be efficiently compressed by 2D video codecs, which allows us to exploit video
hardware accelerators to achieve real-time decoding. On the other hand, based
on the feature image stream, we propose a novel rendering pipeline for VideoRF,
which has specialized space mappings to query radiance properties efficiently.
Paired with a deferred shading model, VideoRF has the capability of real-time
rendering on mobile devices thanks to its efficiency. We have developed a
real-time interactive player that enables online streaming and rendering of
dynamic scenes, offering a seamless and immersive free-viewpoint experience
across a range of devices, from desktops to mobile phones.

---

## 29. [Rejuvenating image-GPT as Strong Visual Representation Learners](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.02147)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.02147](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02147)

**Authors**: Sucheng Ren, Zeyu Wang, Hongru Zhu, Junfei Xiao, Alan Yuille, Cihang Xie

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/oliverrensu/d-igpt)

### Abstract

This paper enhances image-GPT (iGPT), one of the pioneering works that
introduce autoregressive pretraining to predict next pixels for visual
representation learning. Two simple yet essential changes are made. First, we
shift the prediction target from raw pixels to semantic tokens, enabling a
higher-level understanding of visual content. Second, we supplement the
autoregressive modeling by instructing the model to predict not only the next
tokens but also the visible tokens. This pipeline is particularly effective
when semantic tokens are encoded by discriminatively trained models, such as
CLIP. We introduce this novel approach as D-iGPT. Extensive experiments
showcase that D-iGPT excels as a strong learner of visual representations: A
notable achievement of D-iGPT is its compelling performance on the ImageNet-1K
dataset -- by training on publicly available datasets, D-iGPT achieves 89.5\%
top-1 accuracy with a vanilla ViT-Large model. This model also shows strong
generalization on the downstream task and robustness on out-of-distribution
samples. Code is avaiable at
https://github.com/OliverRensu/D-iGPT{https://github.com/OliverRensu/D-iGPT}.

---

## 30. [SANeRF-HQ: Segment Anything for NeRF in High Quality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.01531)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.01531](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01531)

**Authors**: Yichen Liu, Benran Hu, Chi-Keung Tang, Yu-Wing Tai

**Published**: 2023-12-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Recently, the Segment Anything Model (SAM) has showcased remarkable
capabilities of zero-shot segmentation, while NeRF (Neural Radiance Fields) has
gained popularity as a method for various 3D problems beyond novel view
synthesis. Though there exist initial attempts to incorporate these two methods
into 3D segmentation, they face the challenge of accurately and consistently
segmenting objects in complex scenarios. In this paper, we introduce the
Segment Anything for NeRF in High Quality (SANeRF-HQ) to achieve high quality
3D segmentation of any object in a given scene. SANeRF-HQ utilizes SAM for
open-world object segmentation guided by user-supplied prompts, while
leveraging NeRF to aggregate information from different viewpoints. To overcome
the aforementioned challenges, we employ density field and RGB similarity to
enhance the accuracy of segmentation boundary during the aggregation.
Emphasizing on segmentation accuracy, we evaluate our method quantitatively on
multiple NeRF datasets where high-quality ground-truths are available or
manually annotated. SANeRF-HQ shows a significant quality improvement over
previous state-of-the-art methods in NeRF object segmentation, provides higher
flexibility for object localization, and enables more consistent object
segmentation across multiple views. Additional information can be found at
https://lyclyc52.github.io/SANeRF-HQ/.

---

## 31. [Customize your NeRF: Adaptive Source Driven 3D Scene Editing via
  Local-Global Iterative Training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.01663)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.01663](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01663)

**Authors**: Runze He, Shaofei Huang, Xuecheng Nie, Tianrui Hui, Luoqi Liu, Jiao Dai, Jizhong Han, Guanbin Li, Si Liu

**Published**: 2023-12-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

In this paper, we target the adaptive source driven 3D scene editing task by
proposing a CustomNeRF model that unifies a text description or a reference
image as the editing prompt. However, obtaining desired editing results
conformed with the editing prompt is nontrivial since there exist two
significant challenges, including accurate editing of only foreground regions
and multi-view consistency given a single-view reference image. To tackle the
first challenge, we propose a Local-Global Iterative Editing (LGIE) training
scheme that alternates between foreground region editing and full-image
editing, aimed at foreground-only manipulation while preserving the background.
For the second challenge, we also design a class-guided regularization that
exploits class priors within the generation model to alleviate the
inconsistency problem among different views in image-driven editing. Extensive
experiments show that our CustomNeRF produces precise editing results under
various real scenes for both text- and image-driven settings.

---

## 32. [Using Large Language Models to Accelerate Communication for Users with
  Severe Motor Impairments](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.01532)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.01532](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01532)

**Authors**: Shanqing Cai, Subhashini Venugopalan, Katie Seaver, Xiang Xiao, Katrin Tomanek, Sri Jalasutram, Meredith Ringel Morris, Shaun Kane, Ajit Narayanan, Robert L. MacDonald, Emily Kornman, Daniel Vance, Blair Casey, Steve M. Gleason, Philip Q. Nelson, Michael P. Brenner

**Published**: 2023-12-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Finding ways to accelerate text input for individuals with profound motor
impairments has been a long-standing area of research. Closing the speed gap
for augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) devices such as
eye-tracking keyboards is important for improving the quality of life for such
individuals. Recent advances in neural networks of natural language pose new
opportunities for re-thinking strategies and user interfaces for enhanced
text-entry for AAC users. In this paper, we present SpeakFaster, consisting of
large language models (LLMs) and a co-designed user interface for text entry in
a highly-abbreviated form, allowing saving 57% more motor actions than
traditional predictive keyboards in offline simulation. A pilot study with 19
non-AAC participants typing on a mobile device by hand demonstrated gains in
motor savings in line with the offline simulation, while introducing relatively
small effects on overall typing speed. Lab and field testing on two eye-gaze
typing users with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) demonstrated text-entry
rates 29-60% faster than traditional baselines, due to significant saving of
expensive keystrokes achieved through phrase and word predictions from
context-aware LLMs. These findings provide a strong foundation for further
exploration of substantially-accelerated text communication for motor-impaired
users and demonstrate a direction for applying LLMs to text-based user
interfaces.

---

## 33. [TextGenSHAP: Scalable Post-hoc Explanations in Text Generation with Long
  Documents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.01279)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.01279](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01279)

**Authors**: James Enouen, Hootan Nakhost, Sayna Ebrahimi, Sercan O Arik, Yan Liu, Tomas Pfister

**Published**: 2023-12-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have attracted huge interest in practical
applications given their increasingly accurate responses and coherent reasoning
abilities. Given their nature as black-boxes using complex reasoning processes
on their inputs, it is inevitable that the demand for scalable and faithful
explanations for LLMs' generated content will continue to grow. There have been
major developments in the explainability of neural network models over the past
decade. Among them, post-hoc explainability methods, especially Shapley values,
have proven effective for interpreting deep learning models. However, there are
major challenges in scaling up Shapley values for LLMs, particularly when
dealing with long input contexts containing thousands of tokens and
autoregressively generated output sequences. Furthermore, it is often unclear
how to effectively utilize generated explanations to improve the performance of
LLMs. In this paper, we introduce TextGenSHAP, an efficient post-hoc
explanation method incorporating LM-specific techniques. We demonstrate that
this leads to significant increases in speed compared to conventional Shapley
value computations, reducing processing times from hours to minutes for
token-level explanations, and to just seconds for document-level explanations.
In addition, we demonstrate how real-time Shapley values can be utilized in two
important scenarios, providing better understanding of long-document question
answering by localizing important words and sentences; and improving existing
document retrieval systems through enhancing the accuracy of selected passages
and ultimately the final responses.

---
