# Daily Papers - 2023-12-14

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-14)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [Distributed Inference and Fine-tuning of Large Language Models Over The
  Internet](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08361)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08361](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08361)

**Authors**: Alexander Borzunov, Max Ryabinin, Artem Chumachenko, Dmitry Baranchuk, Tim Dettmers, Younes Belkada, Pavel Samygin, Colin Raffel

**Published**: 2023-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are useful in many NLP tasks and become more
capable with size, with the best open-source models having over 50 billion
parameters. However, using these 50B+ models requires high-end hardware, making
them inaccessible to most researchers. In this work, we investigate methods for
cost-efficient inference and fine-tuning of LLMs, comparing local and
distributed strategies. We observe that a large enough model (50B+) can run
efficiently even on geodistributed devices in a consumer-grade network. This
could allow running LLM efficiently by pooling together idle compute resources
of multiple research groups and volunteers. We address two open problems: (1)
how to perform inference and fine-tuning reliably if any device can disconnect
abruptly and (2) how to partition LLMs between devices with uneven hardware,
joining and leaving at will. In order to do that, we develop special
fault-tolerant inference algorithms and load-balancing protocols that
automatically assign devices to maximize the total system throughput. We
showcase these algorithms in Petals - a decentralized system that runs Llama 2
(70B) and BLOOM (176B) over the Internet up to 10x faster than offloading for
interactive generation. We evaluate the performance of our system in simulated
conditions and a real-world setup spanning two continents.

---

## 2. [CLIP as RNN: Segment Countless Visual Concepts without Training Endeavor](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07661)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07661](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07661)

**Authors**: Shuyang Sun, Runjia Li, Philip Torr, Xiuye Gu, Siyang Li

**Published**: 2023-12-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Existing open-vocabulary image segmentation methods require a fine-tuning
step on mask annotations and/or image-text datasets. Mask labels are
labor-intensive, which limits the number of categories in segmentation
datasets. As a result, the open-vocabulary capacity of pre-trained VLMs is
severely reduced after fine-tuning. However, without fine-tuning, VLMs trained
under weak image-text supervision tend to make suboptimal mask predictions when
there are text queries referring to non-existing concepts in the image. To
alleviate these issues, we introduce a novel recurrent framework that
progressively filters out irrelevant texts and enhances mask quality without
training efforts. The recurrent unit is a two-stage segmenter built upon a VLM
with frozen weights. Thus, our model retains the VLM's broad vocabulary space
and strengthens its segmentation capability. Experimental results show that our
method outperforms not only the training-free counterparts, but also those
fine-tuned with millions of additional data samples, and sets new
state-of-the-art records for both zero-shot semantic and referring image
segmentation tasks. Specifically, we improve the current record by 28.8, 16.0,
and 6.9 mIoU on Pascal VOC, COCO Object, and Pascal Context.

---

## 3. [Holodeck: Language Guided Generation of 3D Embodied AI Environments](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09067)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09067](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09067)

**Authors**: Yue Yang, Fan-Yun Sun, Luca Weihs, Eli VanderBilt, Alvaro Herrasti, Winson Han, Jiajun Wu, Nick Haber, Ranjay Krishna, Lingjie Liu, Chris Callison-Burch, Mark Yatskar, Aniruddha Kembhavi, Christopher Clark

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/allenai/Holodeck)

### Abstract

3D simulated environments play a critical role in Embodied AI, but their
creation requires expertise and extensive manual effort, restricting their
diversity and scope. To mitigate this limitation, we present Holodeck, a system
that generates 3D environments to match a user-supplied prompt fully
automatedly. Holodeck can generate diverse scenes, e.g., arcades, spas, and
museums, adjust the designs for styles, and can capture the semantics of
complex queries such as "apartment for a researcher with a cat" and "office of
a professor who is a fan of Star Wars". Holodeck leverages a large language
model (GPT-4) for common sense knowledge about what the scene might look like
and uses a large collection of 3D assets from Objaverse to populate the scene
with diverse objects. To address the challenge of positioning objects
correctly, we prompt GPT-4 to generate spatial relational constraints between
objects and then optimize the layout to satisfy those constraints. Our
large-scale human evaluation shows that annotators prefer Holodeck over
manually designed procedural baselines in residential scenes and that Holodeck
can produce high-quality outputs for diverse scene types. We also demonstrate
an exciting application of Holodeck in Embodied AI, training agents to navigate
in novel scenes like music rooms and daycares without human-constructed data,
which is a significant step forward in developing general-purpose embodied
agents.

---

## 4. [FoundationPose: Unified 6D Pose Estimation and Tracking of Novel Objects](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08344)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08344](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08344)

**Authors**: Bowen Wen, Wei Yang, Jan Kautz, Stan Birchfield

**Published**: 2023-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NVlabs/FoundationPose)

### Abstract

We present FoundationPose, a unified foundation model for 6D object pose
estimation and tracking, supporting both model-based and model-free setups. Our
approach can be instantly applied at test-time to a novel object without
fine-tuning, as long as its CAD model is given, or a small number of reference
images are captured. We bridge the gap between these two setups with a neural
implicit representation that allows for effective novel view synthesis, keeping
the downstream pose estimation modules invariant under the same unified
framework. Strong generalizability is achieved via large-scale synthetic
training, aided by a large language model (LLM), a novel transformer-based
architecture, and contrastive learning formulation. Extensive evaluation on
multiple public datasets involving challenging scenarios and objects indicate
our unified approach outperforms existing methods specialized for each task by
a large margin. In addition, it even achieves comparable results to
instance-level methods despite the reduced assumptions. Project page:
https://nvlabs.github.io/FoundationPose/

---

## 5. [Clockwork Diffusion: Efficient Generation With Model-Step Distillation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08128)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08128](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08128)

**Authors**: Amirhossein Habibian, Amir Ghodrati, Noor Fathima, Guillaume Sautiere, Risheek Garrepalli, Fatih Porikli, Jens Petersen

**Published**: 2023-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/qualcomm-ai-research/clockwork-diffusion)

### Abstract

This work aims to improve the efficiency of text-to-image diffusion models.
While diffusion models use computationally expensive UNet-based denoising
operations in every generation step, we identify that not all operations are
equally relevant for the final output quality. In particular, we observe that
UNet layers operating on high-res feature maps are relatively sensitive to
small perturbations. In contrast, low-res feature maps influence the semantic
layout of the final image and can often be perturbed with no noticeable change
in the output. Based on this observation, we propose Clockwork Diffusion, a
method that periodically reuses computation from preceding denoising steps to
approximate low-res feature maps at one or more subsequent steps. For multiple
baselines, and for both text-to-image generation and image editing, we
demonstrate that Clockwork leads to comparable or improved perceptual scores
with drastically reduced computational complexity. As an example, for Stable
Diffusion v1.5 with 8 DPM++ steps we save 32% of FLOPs with negligible FID and
CLIP change.

---

## 6. [Modeling Complex Mathematical Reasoning via Large Language Model based
  MathAgent](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08926)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08926](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08926)

**Authors**: Haoran Liao, Qinyi Du, Shaohua Hu, Hao He, Yanyan Xu, Jidong Tian, Yaohui Jin

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/oashua/mathagent)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) face challenges in solving complex mathematical
problems that require comprehensive capacities to parse the statements,
associate domain knowledge, perform compound logical reasoning, and integrate
the intermediate rationales. Tackling all these problems once could be arduous
for LLMs, thus leading to confusion in generation. In this work, we explore the
potential of enhancing LLMs with agents by meticulous decomposition and
modeling of mathematical reasoning process. Specifically, we propose a formal
description of the mathematical solving and extend LLMs with an agent-based
zero-shot framework named
Planner-Reasoner-Executor-Reflector (PRER). We
further provide and implement two MathAgents that define the logical forms and
inherent relations via a pool of actions in different grains and orientations:
MathAgent-M adapts its actions to LLMs, while MathAgent-H aligns with
humankind. Experiments on miniF2F and MATH have demonstrated the effectiveness
of PRER and proposed MathAgents, achieving an increase of
12.3%(53.9%66.2%) on the MiniF2F, 9.2%
(49.8%59.0%) on MATH, and
13.2%(23.2%35.4%) for level-5 problems of MATH against
GPT-4. Further analytical results provide more insightful perspectives on
exploiting the behaviors of LLMs as agents.

---

## 7. [Invariant Graph Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.07859)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.07859](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07859)

**Authors**: Zhe Xu, Menghai Pan, Yuzhong Chen, Huiyuan Chen, Yuchen Yan, Mahashweta Das, Hanghang Tong

**Published**: 2023-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Rationale discovery is defined as finding a subset of the input data that
maximally supports the prediction of downstream tasks. In graph machine
learning context, graph rationale is defined to locate the critical subgraph in
the given graph topology, which fundamentally determines the prediction
results. In contrast to the rationale subgraph, the remaining subgraph is named
the environment subgraph. Graph rationalization can enhance the model
performance as the mapping between the graph rationale and prediction label is
viewed as invariant, by assumption. To ensure the discriminative power of the
extracted rationale subgraphs, a key technique named "intervention" is applied.
The core idea of intervention is that given any changing environment subgraphs,
the semantics from the rationale subgraph is invariant, which guarantees the
correct prediction result. However, most, if not all, of the existing
rationalization works on graph data develop their intervention strategies on
the graph level, which is coarse-grained. In this paper, we propose
well-tailored intervention strategies on graph data. Our idea is driven by the
development of Transformer models, whose self-attention module provides rich
interactions between input nodes. Based on the self-attention module, our
proposed invariant graph Transformer (IGT) can achieve fine-grained, more
specifically, node-level and virtual node-level intervention. Our comprehensive
experiments involve 7 real-world datasets, and the proposed IGT shows
significant performance advantages compared to 13 baseline methods.

---

## 8. [ProNeRF: Learning Efficient Projection-Aware Ray Sampling for
  Fine-Grained Implicit Neural Radiance Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.08136)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.08136](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08136)

**Authors**: Juan Luis Gonzalez Bello, Minh-Quan Viet Bui, Munchurl Kim

**Published**: 2023-12-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/KAIST-VICLab/pronerf)

### Abstract

Recent advances in neural rendering have shown that, albeit slow, implicit
compact models can learn a scene's geometries and view-dependent appearances
from multiple views. To maintain such a small memory footprint but achieve
faster inference times, recent works have adopted `sampler' networks that
adaptively sample a small subset of points along each ray in the implicit
neural radiance fields. Although these methods achieve up to a 10times
reduction in rendering time, they still suffer from considerable quality
degradation compared to the vanilla NeRF. In contrast, we propose ProNeRF,
which provides an optimal trade-off between memory footprint (similar to NeRF),
speed (faster than HyperReel), and quality (better than K-Planes). ProNeRF is
equipped with a novel projection-aware sampling (PAS) network together with a
new training strategy for ray exploration and exploitation, allowing for
efficient fine-grained particle sampling. Our ProNeRF yields state-of-the-art
metrics, being 15-23x faster with 0.65dB higher PSNR than NeRF and yielding
0.95dB higher PSNR than the best published sampler-based method, HyperReel. Our
exploration and exploitation training strategy allows ProNeRF to learn the full
scenes' color and density distributions while also learning efficient ray
sampling focused on the highest-density regions. We provide extensive
experimental results that support the effectiveness of our method on the widely
adopted forward-facing and 360 datasets, LLFF and Blender, respectively.

---
