# Daily Papers - 2023-12-26

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-26)

Total papers: 16

---

## 1. [WaveCoder: Widespread And Versatile Enhanced Instruction Tuning with
  Refined Data Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14187)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14187](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14187)

**Authors**: Zhaojian Yu, Xin Zhang, Ning Shang, Yangyu Huang, Can Xu, Yishujie Zhao, Wenxiang Hu, Qiufeng Yin

**Published**: 2023-12-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 49

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/WaveCoder) | [Project Page](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/articles/wavecoder/)

### Abstract

Recent work demonstrates that, after being fine-tuned on a high-quality
instruction dataset, the resulting model can obtain impressive capabilities to
address a wide range of tasks. However, existing methods for instruction data
generation often produce duplicate data and are not controllable enough on data
quality. In this paper, we extend the generalization of instruction tuning by
classifying the instruction data to 4 code-related tasks and propose a
LLM-based Generator-Discriminator data process framework to generate diverse,
high-quality instruction data from open source code. Hence, we introduce
CodeOcean, a dataset comprising 20,000 instruction instances across 4 universal
code-related tasks,which is aimed at augmenting the effectiveness of
instruction tuning and improving the generalization ability of fine-tuned
model. Subsequently, we present WaveCoder, a fine-tuned Code LLM with
Widespread And Versatile Enhanced instruction tuning. This model is
specifically designed for enhancing instruction tuning of Code Language Models
(LLMs). Our experiments demonstrate that Wavecoder models outperform other
open-source models in terms of generalization ability across different
code-related tasks at the same level of fine-tuning scale. Moreover, Wavecoder
exhibits high efficiency in previous code generation tasks. This paper thus
offers a significant contribution to the field of instruction data generation
and fine-tuning models, providing new insights and tools for enhancing
performance in code-related tasks.

---

## 2. [InternVL: Scaling up Vision Foundation Models and Aligning for Generic
  Visual-Linguistic Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14238)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14238](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14238)

**Authors**: Zhe Chen, Jiannan Wu, Wenhai Wang, Weijie Su, Guo Chen, Sen Xing, Zhong Muyan, Qinglong Zhang, Xizhou Zhu, Lewei Lu, Bin Li, Ping Luo, Tong Lu, Yu Qiao, Jifeng Dai

**Published**: 2023-12-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opengvlab/internvl-mmdetseg)

### Abstract

The exponential growth of large language models (LLMs) has opened up numerous
possibilities for multi-modal AGI systems. However, the progress in vision and
vision-language foundation models, which are also critical elements of
multi-modal AGI, has not kept pace with LLMs. In this work, we design a
large-scale vision-language foundation model (InternVL), which scales up the
vision foundation model to 6 billion parameters and progressively aligns it
with the large language model, using web-scale image-text data from various
sources. This model can be broadly applied to and achieve state-of-the-art
performance on visual perception tasks such as image-level or pixel-level
recognition, vision-language tasks such as zero-shot image/video
classification, zero-shot image/video-text retrieval, and link with LLMs to
create multi-modal dialogue systems. We hope that our research could contribute
to the development of multi-modal large models. Code and models are available
at https://github.com/OpenGVLab/InternVL.

---

## 3. [Reasons to Reject? Aligning Language Models with Judgments](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14591)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14591](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14591)

**Authors**: Weiwen Xu, Deng Cai, Zhisong Zhang, Wai Lam, Shuming Shi

**Published**: 2023-12-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wwxu21/cut)

### Abstract

As humans, we consistently engage in interactions with our peers and receive
feedback in the form of natural language. This language feedback allows us to
reflect on our actions, maintain appropriate behavior, and rectify our errors.
The question arises naturally: can we use language feedback to align large
language models (LLMs)? In contrast to previous research that aligns LLMs with
reward or preference data, we present the first systematic exploration of
alignment through the lens of language feedback (i.e., judgment). We commence
with an in-depth investigation of potential methods that can be adapted for
aligning LLMs with judgments, revealing that these methods are unable to fully
capitalize on the judgments. To facilitate more effective utilization of
judgments, we propose a novel framework, Contrastive Unlikelihood Training
(CUT), that allows for fine-grained inappropriate content detection and
correction based on judgments. Our offline alignment results show that, with
merely 1317 off-the-shelf judgment data, CUT (LLaMA2-13b) can beat the 175B
DaVinci003 and surpass the best baseline by 52.34 points on AlpacaEval. The
online alignment results demonstrate that CUT can align LLMs (LLaMA2-chat-13b)
in an iterative fashion using model-specific judgment data, with a steady
performance improvement from 81.09 to 91.36 points on AlpacaEval. Our analysis
further suggests that judgments exhibit greater potential than rewards for LLM
alignment and warrant future research.

---

## 4. [VCoder: Versatile Vision Encoders for Multimodal Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14233)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14233](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14233)

**Authors**: Jitesh Jain, Jianwei Yang, Humphrey Shi

**Published**: 2023-12-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/shi-labs/vcoder)

### Abstract

Humans possess the remarkable skill of Visual Perception, the ability to see
and understand the seen, helping them make sense of the visual world and, in
turn, reason. Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLM) have recently achieved
impressive performance on vision-language tasks ranging from visual
question-answering and image captioning to visual reasoning and image
generation. However, when prompted to identify or count (perceive) the entities
in a given image, existing MLLM systems fail. Working towards developing an
accurate MLLM system for perception and reasoning, we propose using Versatile
vision enCoders (VCoder) as perception eyes for Multimodal LLMs. We feed the
VCoder with perception modalities such as segmentation or depth maps, improving
the MLLM's perception abilities. Secondly, we leverage the images from COCO and
outputs from off-the-shelf vision perception models to create our COCO
Segmentation Text (COST) dataset for training and evaluating MLLMs on the
object perception task. Thirdly, we introduce metrics to assess the object
perception abilities in MLLMs on our COST dataset. Lastly, we provide extensive
experimental evidence proving the VCoder's improved object-level perception
skills over existing Multimodal LLMs, including GPT-4V. We open-source our
dataset, code, and models to promote research. We open-source our code at
https://github.com/SHI-Labs/VCoder

---

## 5. [Pangu-Agent: A Fine-Tunable Generalist Agent with Structured Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14878)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14878](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14878)

**Authors**: Filippos Christianos, Georgios Papoudakis, Matthieu Zimmer, Thomas Coste, Zhihao Wu, Jingxuan Chen, Khyati Khandelwal, James Doran, Xidong Feng, Jiacheng Liu, Zheng Xiong, Yicheng Luo, Jianye Hao, Kun Shao, Haitham Bou-Ammar, Jun Wang

**Published**: 2023-12-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

A key method for creating Artificial Intelligence (AI) agents is
Reinforcement Learning (RL). However, constructing a standalone RL policy that
maps perception to action directly encounters severe problems, chief among them
being its lack of generality across multiple tasks and the need for a large
amount of training data. The leading cause is that it cannot effectively
integrate prior information into the perception-action cycle when devising the
policy. Large language models (LLMs) emerged as a fundamental way to
incorporate cross-domain knowledge into AI agents but lack crucial learning and
adaptation toward specific decision problems. This paper presents a general
framework model for integrating and learning structured reasoning into AI
agents' policies. Our methodology is motivated by the modularity found in the
human brain. The framework utilises the construction of intrinsic and extrinsic
functions to add previous understandings of reasoning structures. It also
provides the adaptive ability to learn models inside every module or function,
consistent with the modular structure of cognitive processes. We describe the
framework in-depth and compare it with other AI pipelines and existing
frameworks. The paper explores practical applications, covering experiments
that show the effectiveness of our method. Our results indicate that AI agents
perform and adapt far better when organised reasoning and prior knowledge are
embedded. This opens the door to more resilient and general AI agent systems.

---

## 6. [YAYI 2: Multilingual Open-Source Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14862)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14862](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14862)

**Authors**: Yin Luo, Qingchao Kong, Nan Xu, Jia Cao, Bao Hao, Baoyu Qu, Bo Chen, Chao Zhu, Chenyang Zhao, Donglei Zhang, Fan Feng, Feifei Zhao, Hailong Sun, Hanxuan Yang, Haojun Pan, Hongyu Liu, Jianbin Guo, Jiangtao Du, Jingyi Wang, Junfeng Li, Lei Sun, Liduo Liu, Lifeng Dong, Lili Liu, Lin Wang, Liwen Zhang, Minzheng Wang, Pin Wang, Ping Yu, Qingxiao Li, Rui Yan, Rui Zou, Ruiqun Li, Taiwen Huang, Xiaodong Wang, Xiaofei Wu, Xin Peng, Xina Zhang, Xing Fang, Xinglin Xiao, Yanni Hao, Yao Dong, Yigang Wang, Ying Liu, Yongyu Jiang, Yungan Wang, Yuqi Wang, Zhangsheng Wang, Zhaoxin Yu, Zhen Luo, Wenji Mao, Lei Wang, Dajun Zeng

**Published**: 2023-12-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

As the latest advancements in natural language processing, large language
models (LLMs) have achieved human-level language understanding and generation
abilities in many real-world tasks, and even have been regarded as a potential
path to the artificial general intelligence. To better facilitate research on
LLMs, many open-source LLMs, such as Llama 2 and Falcon, have recently been
proposed and gained comparable performances to proprietary models. However,
these models are primarily designed for English scenarios and exhibit poor
performances in Chinese contexts. In this technical report, we propose YAYI 2,
including both base and chat models, with 30 billion parameters. YAYI 2 is
pre-trained from scratch on a multilingual corpus which contains 2.65 trillion
tokens filtered by our pre-training data processing pipeline. The base model is
aligned with human values through supervised fine-tuning with millions of
instructions and reinforcement learning from human feedback. Extensive
experiments on multiple benchmarks, such as MMLU and CMMLU, consistently
demonstrate that the proposed YAYI 2 outperforms other similar sized
open-source models.

---

## 7. [Exploiting Novel GPT-4 APIs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14302)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14302](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14302)

**Authors**: Kellin Pelrine, Mohammad Taufeeque, Michał Zając, Euan McLean, Adam Gleave

**Published**: 2023-12-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/alignmentresearch/gpt-4-novel-apis-attacks)

### Abstract

Language model attacks typically assume one of two extreme threat models:
full white-box access to model weights, or black-box access limited to a text
generation API. However, real-world APIs are often more flexible than just text
generation: these APIs expose "gray-box" access leading to new threat vectors.
To explore this, we red-team three new functionalities exposed in the GPT-4
APIs: fine-tuning, function calling and knowledge retrieval. We find that
fine-tuning a model on as few as 15 harmful examples or 100 benign examples can
remove core safeguards from GPT-4, enabling a range of harmful outputs.
Furthermore, we find that GPT-4 Assistants readily divulge the function call
schema and can be made to execute arbitrary function calls. Finally, we find
that knowledge retrieval can be hijacked by injecting instructions into
retrieval documents. These vulnerabilities highlight that any additions to the
functionality exposed by an API can create new vulnerabilities.

---

## 8. [PlatoNeRF: 3D Reconstruction in Plato's Cave via Single-View Two-Bounce
  Lidar](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14239)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14239](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14239)

**Authors**: Tzofi Klinghoffer, Xiaoyu Xiang, Siddharth Somasundaram, Yuchen Fan, Christian Richardt, Ramesh Raskar, Rakesh Ranjan

**Published**: 2023-12-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

3D reconstruction from a single-view is challenging because of the ambiguity
from monocular cues and lack of information about occluded regions. Neural
radiance fields (NeRF), while popular for view synthesis and 3D reconstruction,
are typically reliant on multi-view images. Existing methods for single-view 3D
reconstruction with NeRF rely on either data priors to hallucinate views of
occluded regions, which may not be physically accurate, or shadows observed by
RGB cameras, which are difficult to detect in ambient light and low albedo
backgrounds. We propose using time-of-flight data captured by a single-photon
avalanche diode to overcome these limitations. Our method models two-bounce
optical paths with NeRF, using lidar transient data for supervision. By
leveraging the advantages of both NeRF and two-bounce light measured by lidar,
we demonstrate that we can reconstruct visible and occluded geometry without
data priors or reliance on controlled ambient lighting or scene albedo. In
addition, we demonstrate improved generalization under practical constraints on
sensor spatial- and temporal-resolution. We believe our method is a promising
direction as single-photon lidars become ubiquitous on consumer devices, such
as phones, tablets, and headsets.

---

## 9. [Parrot Captions Teach CLIP to Spot Text](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14232)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14232](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14232)

**Authors**: Yiqi Lin, Conghui He, Alex Jinpeng Wang, Bin Wang, Weijia Li, Mike Zheng Shou

**Published**: 2023-12-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opendatalab/clip-parrot-bias)

### Abstract

Despite CLIP being the foundation model in numerous vision-language
applications, the CLIP suffers from a severe text spotting bias. Such bias
causes CLIP models to `Parrot' the visual text embedded within images while
disregarding the authentic visual semantics. We uncover that in the most
popular image-text dataset LAION-2B, the captions also densely parrot (spell)
the text embedded in images. Our analysis shows that around 50\% of
images are embedded with visual text content, and 90\% of their
captions more or less parrot the visual text. Based on such observation, we
thoroughly inspect the different release d versions of CLIP models and verify
that the visual text is the dominant factor in measuring the LAION-style
image-text similarity for these models. To examine whether these parrot
captions shape the text spotting bias, we train a series of CLIP models with
LAION subsets curated by different parrot-caption-oriented criteria. We show
that training with parrot captions easily shapes such bias but harms the
expected visual-language representation learning in CLIP models. This suggests
that it is urgent to revisit either the design of CLIP-like models or the
existing image-text dataset curation pipeline built on CLIP score filtering.

---

## 10. [DreamDistribution: Prompt Distribution Learning for Text-to-Image
  Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14216)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14216](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14216)

**Authors**: Brian Nlong Zhao, Yuhang Xiao, Jiashu Xu, Xinyang Jiang, Yifan Yang, Dongsheng Li, Laurent Itti, Vibhav Vineet, Yunhao Ge

**Published**: 2023-12-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/briannlongzhao/DreamDistribution) | [Project Page](https://briannlongzhao.github.io/DreamDistribution)

### Abstract

The popularization of Text-to-Image (T2I) diffusion models enables the
generation of high-quality images from text descriptions. However, generating
diverse customized images with reference visual attributes remains challenging.
This work focuses on personalizing T2I diffusion models at a more abstract
concept or category level, adapting commonalities from a set of reference
images while creating new instances with sufficient variations. We introduce a
solution that allows a pretrained T2I diffusion model to learn a set of soft
prompts, enabling the generation of novel images by sampling prompts from the
learned distribution. These prompts offer text-guided editing capabilities and
additional flexibility in controlling variation and mixing between multiple
distributions. We also show the adaptability of the learned prompt distribution
to other tasks, such as text-to-3D. Finally we demonstrate effectiveness of our
approach through quantitative analysis including automatic evaluation and human
assessment. Project website: https://briannlongzhao.github.io/DreamDistribution

---

## 11. [ZeroShape: Regression-based Zero-shot Shape Reconstruction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14198)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14198](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14198)

**Authors**: Zixuan Huang, Stefan Stojanov, Anh Thai, Varun Jampani, James M. Rehg

**Published**: 2023-12-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zxhuang1698/ZeroShape)

### Abstract

We study the problem of single-image zero-shot 3D shape reconstruction.
Recent works learn zero-shot shape reconstruction through generative modeling
of 3D assets, but these models are computationally expensive at train and
inference time. In contrast, the traditional approach to this problem is
regression-based, where deterministic models are trained to directly regress
the object shape. Such regression methods possess much higher computational
efficiency than generative methods. This raises a natural question: is
generative modeling necessary for high performance, or conversely, are
regression-based approaches still competitive? To answer this, we design a
strong regression-based model, called ZeroShape, based on the converging
findings in this field and a novel insight. We also curate a large real-world
evaluation benchmark, with objects from three different real-world 3D datasets.
This evaluation benchmark is more diverse and an order of magnitude larger than
what prior works use to quantitatively evaluate their models, aiming at
reducing the evaluation variance in our field. We show that ZeroShape not only
achieves superior performance over state-of-the-art methods, but also
demonstrates significantly higher computational and data efficiency.

---

## 12. [Generative AI Beyond LLMs: System Implications of Multi-Modal Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14385)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14385](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14385)

**Authors**: Alicia Golden, Samuel Hsia, Fei Sun, Bilge Acun, Basil Hosmer, Yejin Lee, Zachary DeVito, Jeff Johnson, Gu-Yeon Wei, David Brooks, Carole-Jean Wu

**Published**: 2023-12-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

As the development of large-scale Generative AI models evolve beyond text
(1D) generation to include image (2D) and video (3D) generation, processing
spatial and temporal information presents unique challenges to quality,
performance, and efficiency. We present the first work towards understanding
this new system design space for multi-modal text-to-image (TTI) and
text-to-video (TTV) generation models. Current model architecture designs are
bifurcated into 2 categories: Diffusion- and Transformer-based models. Our
systematic performance characterization on a suite of eight representative
TTI/TTV models shows that after state-of-the-art optimization techniques such
as Flash Attention are applied, Convolution accounts for up to 44% of execution
time for Diffusion-based TTI models, while Linear layers consume up to 49% of
execution time for Transformer-based models. We additionally observe that
Diffusion-based TTI models resemble the Prefill stage of LLM inference, and
benefit from 1.1-2.5x greater speedup from Flash Attention than
Transformer-based TTI models that resemble the Decode phase. Since
optimizations designed for LLMs do not map directly onto TTI/TTV models, we
must conduct a thorough characterization of these workloads to gain insights
for new optimization opportunities. In doing so, we define sequence length in
the context of TTI/TTV models and observe sequence length can vary up to 4x in
Diffusion model inference. We additionally observe temporal aspects of TTV
workloads pose unique system bottlenecks, with Temporal Attention accounting
for over 60% of total Attention time. Overall, our in-depth system performance
characterization is a critical first step towards designing efficient and
deployable systems for emerging TTI/TTV workloads.

---

## 13. [Parameter Efficient Tuning Allows Scalable Personalization of LLMs for
  Text Entry: A Case Study on Abbreviation Expansion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14327)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14327](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14327)

**Authors**: Katrin Tomanek, Shanqing Cai, Subhashini Venugopalan

**Published**: 2023-12-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Abbreviation expansion is a strategy used to speed up communication by
limiting the amount of typing and using a language model to suggest expansions.
Here we look at personalizing a Large Language Model's (LLM) suggestions based
on prior conversations to enhance the relevance of predictions, particularly
when the user data is small (~1000 samples). Specifically, we compare
fine-tuning, prompt-tuning, and retrieval augmented generation of expanded text
suggestions for abbreviated inputs. Our case study with a deployed 8B parameter
LLM on a real user living with ALS, and experiments on movie character
personalization indicates that (1) customization may be necessary in some
scenarios and prompt-tuning generalizes well to those, (2) fine-tuning on
in-domain data (with as few as 600 samples) still shows some gains, however (3)
retrieval augmented few-shot selection also outperforms fine-tuning. (4)
Parameter efficient tuning allows for efficient and scalable personalization.
For prompt-tuning, we also find that initializing the learned "soft-prompts" to
user relevant concept tokens leads to higher accuracy than random
initialization.

---

## 14. [MACS: Mass Conditioned 3D Hand and Object Motion Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14929)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14929](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14929)

**Authors**: Soshi Shimada, Franziska Mueller, Jan Bednarik, Bardia Doosti, Bernd Bickel, Danhang Tang, Vladislav Golyanik, Jonathan Taylor, Christian Theobalt, Thabo Beeler

**Published**: 2023-12-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

The physical properties of an object, such as mass, significantly affect how
we manipulate it with our hands. Surprisingly, this aspect has so far been
neglected in prior work on 3D motion synthesis. To improve the naturalness of
the synthesized 3D hand object motions, this work proposes MACS the first MAss
Conditioned 3D hand and object motion Synthesis approach. Our approach is based
on cascaded diffusion models and generates interactions that plausibly adjust
based on the object mass and interaction type. MACS also accepts a manually
drawn 3D object trajectory as input and synthesizes the natural 3D hand motions
conditioned by the object mass. This flexibility enables MACS to be used for
various downstream applications, such as generating synthetic training data for
ML tasks, fast animation of hands for graphics workflows, and generating
character interactions for computer games. We show experimentally that a
small-scale dataset is sufficient for MACS to reasonably generalize across
interpolated and extrapolated object masses unseen during the training.
Furthermore, MACS shows moderate generalization to unseen objects, thanks to
the mass-conditioned contact labels generated by our surface contact synthesis
model ConNet. Our comprehensive user study confirms that the synthesized 3D
hand-object interactions are highly plausible and realistic.

---

## 15. [Shai: A large language model for asset management](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14203)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14203](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14203)

**Authors**: Zhongyang Guo, Guanran Jiang, Zhongdan Zhang, Peng Li, Zhefeng Wang, Yinchun Wang

**Published**: 2023-12-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

This paper introduces "Shai" a 10B level large language model specifically
designed for the asset management industry, built upon an open-source
foundational model. With continuous pre-training and fine-tuning using a
targeted corpus, Shai demonstrates enhanced performance in tasks relevant to
its domain, outperforming baseline models. Our research includes the
development of an innovative evaluation framework, which integrates
professional qualification exams, tailored tasks, open-ended question
answering, and safety assessments, to comprehensively assess Shai's
capabilities. Furthermore, we discuss the challenges and implications of
utilizing large language models like GPT-4 for performance assessment in asset
management, suggesting a combination of automated evaluation and human
judgment. Shai's development, showcasing the potential and versatility of
10B-level large language models in the financial sector with significant
performance and modest computational requirements, hopes to provide practical
insights and methodologies to assist industry peers in their similar endeavors.

---

## 16. [LLM4VG: Large Language Models Evaluation for Video Grounding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.14206)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.14206](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14206)

**Authors**: Wei Feng, Xin Wang, Hong Chen, Zeyang Zhang, Zihan Song, Yuwei Zhou, Wenwu Zhu

**Published**: 2023-12-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Recently, researchers have attempted to investigate the capability of LLMs in
handling videos and proposed several video LLM models. However, the ability of
LLMs to handle video grounding (VG), which is an important time-related video
task requiring the model to precisely locate the start and end timestamps of
temporal moments in videos that match the given textual queries, still remains
unclear and unexplored in literature. To fill the gap, in this paper, we
propose the LLM4VG benchmark, which systematically evaluates the performance of
different LLMs on video grounding tasks. Based on our proposed LLM4VG, we
design extensive experiments to examine two groups of video LLM models on video
grounding: (i) the video LLMs trained on the text-video pairs (denoted as
VidLLM), and (ii) the LLMs combined with pretrained visual description models
such as the video/image captioning model. We propose prompt methods to
integrate the instruction of VG and description from different kinds of
generators, including caption-based generators for direct visual description
and VQA-based generators for information enhancement. We also provide
comprehensive comparisons of various VidLLMs and explore the influence of
different choices of visual models, LLMs, prompt designs, etc, as well. Our
experimental evaluations lead to two conclusions: (i) the existing VidLLMs are
still far away from achieving satisfactory video grounding performance, and
more time-related video tasks should be included to further fine-tune these
models, and (ii) the combination of LLMs and visual models shows preliminary
abilities for video grounding with considerable potential for improvement by
resorting to more reliable models and further guidance of prompt instructions.

---
