# Daily Papers - 2023-12-12

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-12)

Total papers: 15

---

## 1. [LLM360: Towards Fully Transparent Open-Source LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06550)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06550](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06550)

**Authors**: Zhengzhong Liu, Aurick Qiao, Willie Neiswanger, Hongyi Wang, Bowen Tan, Tianhua Tao, Junbo Li, Yuqi Wang, Suqi Sun, Omkar Pangarkar, Richard Fan, Yi Gu, Victor Miller, Yonghao Zhuang, Guowei He, Haonan Li, Fajri Koto, Liping Tang, Nikhil Ranjan, Zhiqiang Shen, Xuguang Ren, Roberto Iriondo, Cun Mu, Zhiting Hu, Mark Schulze, Preslav Nakov, Tim Baldwin, Eric P. Xing

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 57

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/llm360/analysis360)

### Abstract

The recent surge in open-source Large Language Models (LLMs), such as LLaMA,
Falcon, and Mistral, provides diverse options for AI practitioners and
researchers. However, most LLMs have only released partial artifacts, such as
the final model weights or inference code, and technical reports increasingly
limit their scope to high-level design choices and surface statistics. These
choices hinder progress in the field by degrading transparency into the
training of LLMs and forcing teams to rediscover many details in the training
process. We present LLM360, an initiative to fully open-source LLMs, which
advocates for all training code and data, model checkpoints, and intermediate
results to be made available to the community. The goal of LLM360 is to support
open and collaborative AI research by making the end-to-end LLM training
process transparent and reproducible by everyone. As a first step of LLM360, we
release two 7B parameter LLMs pre-trained from scratch, Amber and CrystalCoder,
including their training code, data, intermediate checkpoints, and analyses (at
https://www.llm360.ai). We are committed to continually pushing the boundaries
of LLMs through this open-source effort. More large-scale and stronger models
are underway and will be released in the future.

---

## 2. [Beyond Human Data: Scaling Self-Training for Problem-Solving with
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06585)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06585](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06585)

**Authors**: Avi Singh, John D. Co-Reyes, Rishabh Agarwal, Ankesh Anand, Piyush Patil, Peter J. Liu, James Harrison, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, Aaron Parisi, Abhishek Kumar, Alex Alemi, Alex Rizkowsky, Azade Nova, Ben Adlam, Bernd Bohnet, Hanie Sedghi, Igor Mordatch, Isabelle Simpson, Izzeddin Gur, Jasper Snoek, Jeffrey Pennington, Jiri Hron, Kathleen Kenealy, Kevin Swersky, Kshiteej Mahajan, Laura Culp, Lechao Xiao, Maxwell L. Bileschi, Noah Constant, Roman Novak, Rosanne Liu, Tris Warkentin, Yundi Qian, Ethan Dyer, Behnam Neyshabur, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Noah Fiedel

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

Fine-tuning language models~(LMs) on human-generated data remains a prevalent
practice. However, the performance of such models is often limited by the
quantity and diversity of high-quality human data. In this paper, we explore
whether we can go beyond human data on tasks where we have access to scalar
feedback, for example, on math problems where one can verify correctness. To do
so, we investigate a simple self-training method based on
expectation-maximization, which we call ReST^{EM}, where we (1) generate
samples from the model and filter them using binary feedback, (2) fine-tune the
model on these samples, and (3) repeat this process a few times. Testing on
advanced MATH reasoning and APPS coding benchmarks using PaLM-2 models, we find
that ReST^{EM} scales favorably with model size and significantly surpasses
fine-tuning only on human data. Overall, our findings suggest self-training
with feedback can substantially reduce dependence on human-generated data.

---

## 3. [Photorealistic Video Generation with Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06662)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06662](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06662)

**Authors**: Agrim Gupta, Lijun Yu, Kihyuk Sohn, Xiuye Gu, Meera Hahn, Li Fei-Fei, Irfan Essa, Lu Jiang, José Lezama

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

We present W.A.L.T, a transformer-based approach for photorealistic video
generation via diffusion modeling. Our approach has two key design decisions.
First, we use a causal encoder to jointly compress images and videos within a
unified latent space, enabling training and generation across modalities.
Second, for memory and training efficiency, we use a window attention
architecture tailored for joint spatial and spatiotemporal generative modeling.
Taken together these design decisions enable us to achieve state-of-the-art
performance on established video (UCF-101 and Kinetics-600) and image
(ImageNet) generation benchmarks without using classifier free guidance.
Finally, we also train a cascade of three models for the task of text-to-video
generation consisting of a base latent video diffusion model, and two video
super-resolution diffusion models to generate videos of 512 times 896
resolution at 8 frames per second.

---

## 4. [Sherpa3D: Boosting High-Fidelity Text-to-3D Generation via Coarse 3D
  Prior](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06655)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06655](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06655)

**Authors**: Fangfu Liu, Diankun Wu, Yi Wei, Yongming Rao, Yueqi Duan

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/liuff19/Sherpa3D)

### Abstract

Recently, 3D content creation from text prompts has demonstrated remarkable
progress by utilizing 2D and 3D diffusion models. While 3D diffusion models
ensure great multi-view consistency, their ability to generate high-quality and
diverse 3D assets is hindered by the limited 3D data. In contrast, 2D diffusion
models find a distillation approach that achieves excellent generalization and
rich details without any 3D data. However, 2D lifting methods suffer from
inherent view-agnostic ambiguity thereby leading to serious multi-face Janus
issues, where text prompts fail to provide sufficient guidance to learn
coherent 3D results. Instead of retraining a costly viewpoint-aware model, we
study how to fully exploit easily accessible coarse 3D knowledge to enhance the
prompts and guide 2D lifting optimization for refinement. In this paper, we
propose Sherpa3D, a new text-to-3D framework that achieves high-fidelity,
generalizability, and geometric consistency simultaneously. Specifically, we
design a pair of guiding strategies derived from the coarse 3D prior generated
by the 3D diffusion model: a structural guidance for geometric fidelity and a
semantic guidance for 3D coherence. Employing the two types of guidance, the 2D
diffusion model enriches the 3D content with diversified and high-quality
results. Extensive experiments show the superiority of our Sherpa3D over the
state-of-the-art text-to-3D methods in terms of quality and 3D consistency.

---

## 5. [Vary: Scaling up the Vision Vocabulary for Large Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06109)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06109](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06109)

**Authors**: Haoran Wei, Lingyu Kong, Jinyue Chen, Liang Zhao, Zheng Ge, Jinrong Yang, Jianjian Sun, Chunrui Han, Xiangyu Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Ucas-HaoranWei/Vary)

### Abstract

Modern Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) enjoy the same vision vocabulary
-- CLIP, which can cover most common vision tasks. However, for some special
vision task that needs dense and fine-grained vision perception, e.g.,
document-level OCR or chart understanding, especially in non-English scenarios,
the CLIP-style vocabulary may encounter low efficiency in tokenizing the vision
knowledge and even suffer out-of-vocabulary problem. Accordingly, we propose
Vary, an efficient and effective method to scale up the vision vocabulary of
LVLMs. The procedures of Vary are naturally divided into two folds: the
generation and integration of a new vision vocabulary. In the first phase, we
devise a vocabulary network along with a tiny decoder-only transformer to
produce the desired vocabulary via autoregression. In the next, we scale up the
vanilla vision vocabulary by merging the new one with the original one (CLIP),
enabling the LVLMs can quickly garner new features. Compared to the popular
BLIP-2, MiniGPT4, and LLaVA, Vary can maintain its vanilla capabilities while
enjoying more excellent fine-grained perception and understanding ability.
Specifically, Vary is competent in new document parsing features (OCR or
markdown conversion) while achieving 78.2% ANLS in DocVQA and 36.2% in MMVet.
Our code will be publicly available on the homepage.

---

## 6. [Context Tuning for Retrieval Augmented Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.05708)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.05708](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05708)

**Authors**: Raviteja Anantha, Tharun Bethi, Danil Vodianik, Srinivas Chappidi

**Published**: 2023-12-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have the remarkable ability to solve new tasks
with just a few examples, but they need access to the right tools. Retrieval
Augmented Generation (RAG) addresses this problem by retrieving a list of
relevant tools for a given task. However, RAG's tool retrieval step requires
all the required information to be explicitly present in the query. This is a
limitation, as semantic search, the widely adopted tool retrieval method, can
fail when the query is incomplete or lacks context. To address this limitation,
we propose Context Tuning for RAG, which employs a smart context retrieval
system to fetch relevant information that improves both tool retrieval and plan
generation. Our lightweight context retrieval model uses numerical,
categorical, and habitual usage signals to retrieve and rank context items. Our
empirical results demonstrate that context tuning significantly enhances
semantic search, achieving a 3.5-fold and 1.5-fold improvement in Recall@K for
context retrieval and tool retrieval tasks respectively, and resulting in an
11.6% increase in LLM-based planner accuracy. Additionally, we show that our
proposed lightweight model using Reciprocal Rank Fusion (RRF) with LambdaMART
outperforms GPT-4 based retrieval. Moreover, we observe context augmentation at
plan generation, even after tool retrieval, reduces hallucination.

---

## 7. [From Text to Motion: Grounding GPT-4 in a Humanoid Robot "Alter3"](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06571)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06571](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06571)

**Authors**: Takahide Yoshida, Atsushi Masumori, Takashi Ikegami

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

We report the development of Alter3, a humanoid robot capable of generating
spontaneous motion using a Large Language Model (LLM), specifically GPT-4. This
achievement was realized by integrating GPT-4 into our proprietary android,
Alter3, thereby effectively grounding the LLM with Alter's bodily movement.
Typically, low-level robot control is hardware-dependent and falls outside the
scope of LLM corpora, presenting challenges for direct LLM-based robot control.
However, in the case of humanoid robots like Alter3, direct control is feasible
by mapping the linguistic expressions of human actions onto the robot's body
through program code. Remarkably, this approach enables Alter3 to adopt various
poses, such as a 'selfie' stance or 'pretending to be a ghost,' and generate
sequences of actions over time without explicit programming for each body part.
This demonstrates the robot's zero-shot learning capabilities. Additionally,
verbal feedback can adjust poses, obviating the need for fine-tuning. A video
of Alter3's generated motions is available at
https://tnoinkwms.github.io/ALTER-LLM/

---

## 8. [Efficient Quantization Strategies for Latent Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.05431)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.05431](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05431)

**Authors**: Yuewei Yang, Xiaoliang Dai, Jialiang Wang, Peizhao Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Latent Diffusion Models (LDMs) capture the dynamic evolution of latent
variables over time, blending patterns and multimodality in a generative
system. Despite the proficiency of LDM in various applications, such as
text-to-image generation, facilitated by robust text encoders and a variational
autoencoder, the critical need to deploy large generative models on edge
devices compels a search for more compact yet effective alternatives. Post
Training Quantization (PTQ), a method to compress the operational size of deep
learning models, encounters challenges when applied to LDM due to temporal and
structural complexities. This study proposes a quantization strategy that
efficiently quantize LDMs, leveraging Signal-to-Quantization-Noise Ratio (SQNR)
as a pivotal metric for evaluation. By treating the quantization discrepancy as
relative noise and identifying sensitive part(s) of a model, we propose an
efficient quantization approach encompassing both global and local strategies.
The global quantization process mitigates relative quantization noise by
initiating higher-precision quantization on sensitive blocks, while local
treatments address specific challenges in quantization-sensitive and
time-sensitive modules. The outcomes of our experiments reveal that the
implementation of both global and local treatments yields a highly efficient
and effective Post Training Quantization (PTQ) of LDMs.

---

## 9. [Llama Guard: LLM-based Input-Output Safeguard for Human-AI Conversations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06674)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06674](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06674)

**Authors**: Hakan Inan, Kartikeya Upasani, Jianfeng Chi, Rashi Rungta, Krithika Iyer, Yuning Mao, Michael Tontchev, Qing Hu, Brian Fuller, Davide Testuggine, Madian Khabsa

**Published**: 2023-12-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig)

### Abstract

We introduce Llama Guard, an LLM-based input-output safeguard model geared
towards Human-AI conversation use cases. Our model incorporates a safety risk
taxonomy, a valuable tool for categorizing a specific set of safety risks found
in LLM prompts (i.e., prompt classification). This taxonomy is also
instrumental in classifying the responses generated by LLMs to these prompts, a
process we refer to as response classification. For the purpose of both prompt
and response classification, we have meticulously gathered a dataset of high
quality. Llama Guard, a Llama2-7b model that is instruction-tuned on our
collected dataset, albeit low in volume, demonstrates strong performance on
existing benchmarks such as the OpenAI Moderation Evaluation dataset and
ToxicChat, where its performance matches or exceeds that of currently available
content moderation tools. Llama Guard functions as a language model, carrying
out multi-class classification and generating binary decision scores.
Furthermore, the instruction fine-tuning of Llama Guard allows for the
customization of tasks and the adaptation of output formats. This feature
enhances the model's capabilities, such as enabling the adjustment of taxonomy
categories to align with specific use cases, and facilitating zero-shot or
few-shot prompting with diverse taxonomies at the input. We are making Llama
Guard model weights available and we encourage researchers to further develop
and adapt them to meet the evolving needs of the community for AI safety.

---

## 10. [Federated Full-Parameter Tuning of Billion-Sized Language Models with
  Communication Cost under 18 Kilobytes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06353)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06353](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06353)

**Authors**: Zhen Qin, Daoyuan Chen, Bingchen Qian, Bolin Ding, Yaliang Li, Shuiguang Deng

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zhenqincn/fedkseed)

### Abstract

Pre-trained large language models (LLMs) require fine-tuning to improve their
responsiveness to natural language instructions. Federated learning (FL) offers
a way to perform fine-tuning using the abundant data on end devices without
compromising data privacy. Most existing federated fine-tuning methods for LLMs
rely on parameter-efficient fine-tuning techniques, which may not reach the
performance heights possible with full-parameter tuning. However, the
communication overhead associated with full-parameter tuning is prohibitively
high for both servers and clients. This work introduces FedKSeed, a novel
approach that employs zeroth-order optimization (ZOO) with a set of random
seeds. It enables federated full-parameter tuning of billion-sized LLMs
directly on devices. Our method significantly reduces transmission requirements
between the server and clients to just a few scalar gradients and random seeds,
amounting to only a few thousand bytes. Building on this, we develop a strategy
to assess the significance of ZOO perturbations for FL, allowing for
probability-differentiated seed sampling. This prioritizes perturbations that
have a greater impact on model accuracy. Experiments across six scenarios with
different LLMs, datasets and data partitions demonstrate that our approach
outperforms existing federated LLM fine-tuning methods in terms of both
communication efficiency and new task generalization.

---

## 11. [Evaluation of Large Language Models for Decision Making in Autonomous
  Driving](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06351)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06351](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06351)

**Authors**: Kotaro Tanahashi, Yuichi Inoue, Yu Yamaguchi, Hidetatsu Yaginuma, Daiki Shiotsuka, Hiroyuki Shimatani, Kohei Iwamasa, Yoshiaki Inoue, Takafumi Yamaguchi, Koki Igari, Tsukasa Horinouchi, Kento Tokuhiro, Yugo Tokuchi, Shunsuke Aoki

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Various methods have been proposed for utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs)
in autonomous driving. One strategy of using LLMs for autonomous driving
involves inputting surrounding objects as text prompts to the LLMs, along with
their coordinate and velocity information, and then outputting the subsequent
movements of the vehicle. When using LLMs for such purposes, capabilities such
as spatial recognition and planning are essential. In particular, two
foundational capabilities are required: (1) spatial-aware decision making,
which is the ability to recognize space from coordinate information and make
decisions to avoid collisions, and (2) the ability to adhere to traffic rules.
However, quantitative research has not been conducted on how accurately
different types of LLMs can handle these problems. In this study, we
quantitatively evaluated these two abilities of LLMs in the context of
autonomous driving. Furthermore, to conduct a Proof of Concept (POC) for the
feasibility of implementing these abilities in actual vehicles, we developed a
system that uses LLMs to drive a vehicle.

---

## 12. [Using Captum to Explain Generative Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.05491)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.05491](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05491)

**Authors**: Vivek Miglani, Aobo Yang, Aram H. Markosyan, Diego Garcia-Olano, Narine Kokhlikyan

**Published**: 2023-12-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Captum is a comprehensive library for model explainability in PyTorch,
offering a range of methods from the interpretability literature to enhance
users' understanding of PyTorch models. In this paper, we introduce new
features in Captum that are specifically designed to analyze the behavior of
generative language models. We provide an overview of the available
functionalities and example applications of their potential for understanding
learned associations within generative language models.

---

## 13. [Unlocking Anticipatory Text Generation: A Constrained Approach for
  Faithful Decoding with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06149)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06149](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06149)

**Authors**: Lifu Tu, Semih Yavuz, Jin Qu, Jiacheng Xu, Rui Meng, Caiming Xiong, Yingbo Zhou

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SalesforceAIResearch/Unlocking-TextGen)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated a powerful ability for text
generation. However, achieving optimal results with a given prompt or
instruction can be challenging, especially for billion-sized models.
Additionally, undesired behaviors such as toxicity or hallucinations can
manifest. While much larger models (e.g., ChatGPT) may demonstrate strength in
mitigating these issues, there is still no guarantee of complete prevention. In
this work, we propose formalizing text generation as a future-constrained
generation problem to minimize undesirable behaviors and enforce faithfulness
to instructions. The estimation of future constraint satisfaction, accomplished
using LLMs, guides the text generation process. Our extensive experiments
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach across three distinct
text generation tasks: keyword-constrained generation (Lin et al., 2020),
toxicity reduction (Gehman et al., 2020), and factual correctness in
question-answering (Gao et al., 2023).

---

## 14. [Order Matters in the Presence of Dataset Imbalance for Multilingual
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.06134)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.06134](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06134)

**Authors**: Dami Choi, Derrick Xin, Hamid Dadkhahi, Justin Gilmer, Ankush Garg, Orhan Firat, Chih-Kuan Yeh, Andrew M. Dai, Behrooz Ghorbani

**Published**: 2023-12-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

In this paper, we empirically study the optimization dynamics of multi-task
learning, particularly focusing on those that govern a collection of tasks with
significant data imbalance. We present a simple yet effective method of
pre-training on high-resource tasks, followed by fine-tuning on a mixture of
high/low-resource tasks. We provide a thorough empirical study and analysis of
this method's benefits showing that it achieves consistent improvements
relative to the performance trade-off profile of standard static weighting. We
analyze under what data regimes this method is applicable and show its
improvements empirically in neural machine translation (NMT) and multi-lingual
language modeling.

---

## 15. [TCNCA: Temporal Convolution Network with Chunked Attention for Scalable
  Sequence Processing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.05605)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.05605](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05605)

**Authors**: Aleksandar Terzic, Michael Hersche, Geethan Karunaratne, Luca Benini, Abu Sebastian, Abbas Rahimi

**Published**: 2023-12-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

MEGA is a recent transformer-based architecture, which utilizes a linear
recurrent operator whose parallel computation, based on the FFT, scales as
O(LlogL), with L being the sequence length. We build upon their approach by
replacing the linear recurrence with a special temporal convolutional network
which permits larger receptive field size with shallower networks, and reduces
the computational complexity to O(L). The resulting model is called TCNCA, a
Temporal Convolutional Network with Chunked Attention. We evaluate TCNCA on
EnWik8 language modeling, long-range-arena (LRA) sequence classification, as
well as a synthetic reasoning benchmark associative recall. On EnWik8, TCNCA
outperforms MEGA, reaching a lower loss with 1.37times/1.24times faster
forward/backward pass during training. The dilated convolutions used in TCNCA
are consistently and significantly faster operations than the FFT-based
parallelized recurrence in GPUs, making them a scalable candidate for handling
very large sequence lengths: they are up to 7.07times/2.86times faster in
the forward/backward pass for sequences up to 131k. Further on LRA, TCNCA
achieves, on average, 1.28times speed-up during inference with similar
accuracy to what MEGA achieves. On associative recall, we find that even a
simplified version of TCNCA, without excessive multiplicative and additive
interactions, remains superior or competitive to MEGA on a range of sequence
lengths and vocabulary sizes.

---
