# Daily Papers - 2023-12-17

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-17)

Total papers: 3

---

## 1. [Weak-to-Strong Generalization: Eliciting Strong Capabilities With Weak
  Supervision](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09390)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09390](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09390)

**Authors**: Collin Burns, Pavel Izmailov, Jan Hendrik Kirchner, Bowen Baker, Leo Gao, Leopold Aschenbrenner, Yining Chen, Adrien Ecoffet, Manas Joglekar, Jan Leike, Ilya Sutskever, Jeff Wu

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

Widely used alignment techniques, such as reinforcement learning from human
feedback (RLHF), rely on the ability of humans to supervise model behavior -
for example, to evaluate whether a model faithfully followed instructions or
generated safe outputs. However, future superhuman models will behave in
complex ways too difficult for humans to reliably evaluate; humans will only be
able to weakly supervise superhuman models. We study an analogy to this
problem: can weak model supervision elicit the full capabilities of a much
stronger model? We test this using a range of pretrained language models in the
GPT-4 family on natural language processing (NLP), chess, and reward modeling
tasks. We find that when we naively finetune strong pretrained models on labels
generated by a weak model, they consistently perform better than their weak
supervisors, a phenomenon we call weak-to-strong generalization. However, we
are still far from recovering the full capabilities of strong models with naive
finetuning alone, suggesting that techniques like RLHF may scale poorly to
superhuman models without further work. We find that simple methods can often
significantly improve weak-to-strong generalization: for example, when
finetuning GPT-4 with a GPT-2-level supervisor and an auxiliary confidence
loss, we can recover close to GPT-3.5-level performance on NLP tasks. Our
results suggest that it is feasible to make empirical progress today on a
fundamental challenge of aligning superhuman models.

---

## 2. [Weight subcloning: direct initialization of transformers using larger
  pretrained ones](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09299)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09299](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09299)

**Authors**: Mohammad Samragh, Mehrdad Farajtabar, Sachin Mehta, Raviteja Vemulapalli, Fartash Faghri, Devang Naik, Oncel Tuzel, Mohammad Rastegari

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Training large transformer models from scratch for a target task requires
lots of data and is computationally demanding. The usual practice of transfer
learning overcomes this challenge by initializing the model with weights of a
pretrained model of the same size and specification to increase the convergence
and training speed. However, what if no pretrained model of the required size
is available? In this paper, we introduce a simple yet effective technique to
transfer the knowledge of a pretrained model to smaller variants. Our approach
called weight subcloning expedites the training of scaled-down transformers by
initializing their weights from larger pretrained models.
  Weight subcloning involves an operation on the pretrained model to obtain the
equivalent initialized scaled-down model. It consists of two key steps: first,
we introduce neuron importance ranking to decrease the embedding dimension per
layer in the pretrained model. Then, we remove blocks from the transformer
model to match the number of layers in the scaled-down network. The result is a
network ready to undergo training, which gains significant improvements in
training speed compared to random initialization. For instance, we achieve 4x
faster training for vision transformers in image classification and language
models designed for next token prediction.

---

## 3. [Self-Evaluation Improves Selective Generation in Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.09300)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.09300](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09300)

**Authors**: Jie Ren, Yao Zhao, Tu Vu, Peter J. Liu, Balaji Lakshminarayanan

**Published**: 2023-12-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Safe deployment of large language models (LLMs) may benefit from a reliable
method for assessing their generated content to determine when to abstain or to
selectively generate. While likelihood-based metrics such as perplexity are
widely employed, recent research has demonstrated the limitations of using
sequence-level probability estimates given by LLMs as reliable indicators of
generation quality. Conversely, LLMs have demonstrated strong calibration at
the token level, particularly when it comes to choosing correct answers in
multiple-choice questions or evaluating true/false statements. In this work, we
reformulate open-ended generation tasks into token-level prediction tasks, and
leverage LLMs' superior calibration at the token level. We instruct an LLM to
self-evaluate its answers, employing either a multi-way comparison or a
point-wise evaluation approach, with the option to include a ``None of the
above'' option to express the model's uncertainty explicitly. We benchmark a
range of scoring methods based on self-evaluation and evaluate their
performance in selective generation using TruthfulQA and TL;DR. Through
experiments with PaLM-2 and GPT-3, we demonstrate that self-evaluation based
scores not only improve accuracy, but also correlate better with the overall
quality of generated content.

---
