# Daily Papers - 2023-12-27

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-27)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [SOLAR 10.7B: Scaling Large Language Models with Simple yet Effective
  Depth Up-Scaling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.15166)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.15166](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15166)

**Authors**: Dahyun Kim, Chanjun Park, Sanghoon Kim, Wonsung Lee, Wonho Song, Yunsu Kim, Hyeonwoo Kim, Yungi Kim, Hyeonju Lee, Jihoo Kim, Changbae Ahn, Seonghoon Yang, Sukyung Lee, Hyunbyung Park, Gyoungjin Gim, Mikyoung Cha, Hwalsuk Lee, Sunghun Kim

**Published**: 2023-12-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 61

### Abstract

We introduce depth up-scaling (DUS), a novel technique to up-scale base LLMs
efficiently and effectively in a simple manner. In contrast to
mixture-of-experts (MoE), DUS does not require complex changes to train and
inference. Using DUS, we build SOLAR 10.7B, a large language model (LLM) with
10.7 billion parameters, demonstrating superior performance in various natural
language processing (NLP) tasks. Comparative evaluations show that SOLAR 10.7B
outperforms existing open-source pretrained LLMs, such as Llama 2 and Mistral
7B. We additionally present SOLAR 10.7B-Instruct, a variant fine-tuned for
instruction-following capabilities, surpassing Mixtral-8x7B. SOLAR 10.7B is
publicly available under the Apache 2.0 license, promoting broad access and
application in the LLM field.

---

## 2. [Principled Instructions Are All You Need for Questioning LLaMA-1/2,
  GPT-3.5/4](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16171)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16171](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16171)

**Authors**: Sondos Mahmoud Bsharat, Aidar Myrzakhan, Zhiqiang Shen

**Published**: 2023-12-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 37

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vila-lab/atlas)

### Abstract

This paper introduces 26 guiding principles designed to streamline the
process of querying and prompting large language models. Our goal is to
simplify the underlying concepts of formulating questions for various scales of
large language models, examining their abilities, and enhancing user
comprehension on the behaviors of different scales of large language models
when feeding into different prompts. Extensive experiments are conducted on
LLaMA-1/2 (7B, 13B and 70B), GPT-3.5/4 to verify the effectiveness of the
proposed principles on instructions and prompts design. We hope that this work
can provide a better guide for researchers working on the prompting of large
language models. Project page is available at
https://github.com/VILA-Lab/ATLAS.

---

## 3. [Make-A-Character: High Quality Text-to-3D Character Generation within
  Minutes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.15430)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.15430](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15430)

**Authors**: Jianqiang Ren, Chao He, Lin Liu, Jiahao Chen, Yutong Wang, Yafei Song, Jianfang Li, Tangli Xue, Siqi Hu, Tao Chen, Kunkun Zheng, Jianjing Xiang, Liefeng Bo

**Published**: 2023-12-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Human3DAIGC/Make-A-Character)

### Abstract

There is a growing demand for customized and expressive 3D characters with
the emergence of AI agents and Metaverse, but creating 3D characters using
traditional computer graphics tools is a complex and time-consuming task. To
address these challenges, we propose a user-friendly framework named
Make-A-Character (Mach) to create lifelike 3D avatars from text descriptions.
The framework leverages the power of large language and vision models for
textual intention understanding and intermediate image generation, followed by
a series of human-oriented visual perception and 3D generation modules. Our
system offers an intuitive approach for users to craft controllable, realistic,
fully-realized 3D characters that meet their expectations within 2 minutes,
while also enabling easy integration with existing CG pipeline for dynamic
expressiveness. For more information, please visit the project page at
https://human3daigc.github.io/MACH/.

---

## 4. [UniRef++: Segment Every Reference Object in Spatial and Temporal Spaces](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.15715)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.15715](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15715)

**Authors**: Jiannan Wu, Yi Jiang, Bin Yan, Huchuan Lu, Zehuan Yuan, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2023-12-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/foundationvision/uniref)

### Abstract

The reference-based object segmentation tasks, namely referring image
segmentation (RIS), few-shot image segmentation (FSS), referring video object
segmentation (RVOS), and video object segmentation (VOS), aim to segment a
specific object by utilizing either language or annotated masks as references.
Despite significant progress in each respective field, current methods are
task-specifically designed and developed in different directions, which hinders
the activation of multi-task capabilities for these tasks. In this work, we end
the current fragmented situation and propose UniRef++ to unify the four
reference-based object segmentation tasks with a single architecture. At the
heart of our approach is the proposed UniFusion module which performs
multiway-fusion for handling different tasks with respect to their specified
references. And a unified Transformer architecture is then adopted for
achieving instance-level segmentation. With the unified designs, UniRef++ can
be jointly trained on a broad range of benchmarks and can flexibly complete
multiple tasks at run-time by specifying the corresponding references. We
evaluate our unified models on various benchmarks. Extensive experimental
results indicate that our proposed UniRef++ achieves state-of-the-art
performance on RIS and RVOS, and performs competitively on FSS and VOS with a
parameter-shared network. Moreover, we showcase that the proposed UniFusion
module could be easily incorporated into the current advanced foundation model
SAM and obtain satisfactory results with parameter-efficient finetuning. Codes
and models are available at https://github.com/FoundationVision/UniRef.

---

## 5. [Gemini vs GPT-4V: A Preliminary Comparison and Combination of
  Vision-Language Models Through Qualitative Cases](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.15011)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.15011](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15011)

**Authors**: Zhangyang Qi, Ye Fang, Mengchen Zhang, Zeyi Sun, Tong Wu, Ziwei Liu, Dahua Lin, Jiaqi Wang, Hengshuang Zhao

**Published**: 2023-12-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/qi-zhangyang/gemini-vs-gpt4v)

### Abstract

The rapidly evolving sector of Multi-modal Large Language Models (MLLMs) is
at the forefront of integrating linguistic and visual processing in artificial
intelligence. This paper presents an in-depth comparative study of two
pioneering models: Google's Gemini and OpenAI's GPT-4V(ision). Our study
involves a multi-faceted evaluation of both models across key dimensions such
as Vision-Language Capability, Interaction with Humans, Temporal Understanding,
and assessments in both Intelligence and Emotional Quotients. The core of our
analysis delves into the distinct visual comprehension abilities of each model.
We conducted a series of structured experiments to evaluate their performance
in various industrial application scenarios, offering a comprehensive
perspective on their practical utility. We not only involve direct performance
comparisons but also include adjustments in prompts and scenarios to ensure a
balanced and fair analysis. Our findings illuminate the unique strengths and
niches of both models. GPT-4V distinguishes itself with its precision and
succinctness in responses, while Gemini excels in providing detailed, expansive
answers accompanied by relevant imagery and links. These understandings not
only shed light on the comparative merits of Gemini and GPT-4V but also
underscore the evolving landscape of multimodal foundation models, paving the
way for future advancements in this area. After the comparison, we attempted to
achieve better results by combining the two models. Finally, We would like to
express our profound gratitude to the teams behind GPT-4V and Gemini for their
pioneering contributions to the field. Our acknowledgments are also extended to
the comprehensive qualitative analysis presented in 'Dawn' by Yang et al. This
work, with its extensive collection of image samples, prompts, and
GPT-4V-related results, provided a foundational basis for our analysis.

---

## 6. [Audiobox: Unified Audio Generation with Natural Language Prompts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.15821)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.15821](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15821)

**Authors**: Apoorv Vyas, Bowen Shi, Matthew Le, Andros Tjandra, Yi-Chiao Wu, Baishan Guo, Jiemin Zhang, Xinyue Zhang, Robert Adkins, William Ngan, Jeff Wang, Ivan Cruz, Bapi Akula, Akinniyi Akinyemi, Brian Ellis, Rashel Moritz, Yael Yungster, Alice Rakotoarison, Liang Tan, Chris Summers, Carleigh Wood, Joshua Lane, Mary Williamson, Wei-Ning Hsu

**Published**: 2023-12-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Audio is an essential part of our life, but creating it often requires
expertise and is time-consuming. Research communities have made great progress
over the past year advancing the performance of large scale audio generative
models for a single modality (speech, sound, or music) through adopting more
powerful generative models and scaling data. However, these models lack
controllability in several aspects: speech generation models cannot synthesize
novel styles based on text description and are limited on domain coverage such
as outdoor environments; sound generation models only provide coarse-grained
control based on descriptions like "a person speaking" and would only generate
mumbling human voices. This paper presents Audiobox, a unified model based on
flow-matching that is capable of generating various audio modalities. We design
description-based and example-based prompting to enhance controllability and
unify speech and sound generation paradigms. We allow transcript, vocal, and
other audio styles to be controlled independently when generating speech. To
improve model generalization with limited labels, we adapt a self-supervised
infilling objective to pre-train on large quantities of unlabeled audio.
Audiobox sets new benchmarks on speech and sound generation (0.745 similarity
on Librispeech for zero-shot TTS; 0.77 FAD on AudioCaps for text-to-sound) and
unlocks new methods for generating audio with novel vocal and acoustic styles.
We further integrate Bespoke Solvers, which speeds up generation by over 25
times compared to the default ODE solver for flow-matching, without loss of
performance on several tasks. Our demo is available at
https://audiobox.metademolab.com/

---

## 7. [LangSplat: 3D Language Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16084)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16084](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16084)

**Authors**: Minghan Qin, Wanhua Li, Jiawei Zhou, Haoqian Wang, Hanspeter Pfister

**Published**: 2023-12-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/minghanqin/LangSplat) | [Project Page](https://langsplat.github.io/)

### Abstract

Human lives in a 3D world and commonly uses natural language to interact with
a 3D scene. Modeling a 3D language field to support open-ended language queries
in 3D has gained increasing attention recently. This paper introduces
LangSplat, which constructs a 3D language field that enables precise and
efficient open-vocabulary querying within 3D spaces. Unlike existing methods
that ground CLIP language embeddings in a NeRF model, LangSplat advances the
field by utilizing a collection of 3D Gaussians, each encoding language
features distilled from CLIP, to represent the language field. By employing a
tile-based splatting technique for rendering language features, we circumvent
the costly rendering process inherent in NeRF. Instead of directly learning
CLIP embeddings, LangSplat first trains a scene-wise language autoencoder and
then learns language features on the scene-specific latent space, thereby
alleviating substantial memory demands imposed by explicit modeling. Existing
methods struggle with imprecise and vague 3D language fields, which fail to
discern clear boundaries between objects. We delve into this issue and propose
to learn hierarchical semantics using SAM, thereby eliminating the need for
extensively querying the language field across various scales and the
regularization of DINO features. Extensive experiments on open-vocabulary 3D
object localization and semantic segmentation demonstrate that LangSplat
significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art method LERF by a large
margin. Notably, LangSplat is extremely efficient, achieving a {\speed}
times speedup compared to LERF at the resolution of 1440 times 1080. We
strongly recommend readers to check out our video results at
https://langsplat.github.io

---

## 8. [A Recipe for Scaling up Text-to-Video Generation with Text-free Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.15770)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.15770](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15770)

**Authors**: Xiang Wang, Shiwei Zhang, Hangjie Yuan, Zhiwu Qing, Biao Gong, Yingya Zhang, Yujun Shen, Changxin Gao, Nong Sang

**Published**: 2023-12-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Diffusion-based text-to-video generation has witnessed impressive progress in
the past year yet still falls behind text-to-image generation. One of the key
reasons is the limited scale of publicly available data (e.g., 10M video-text
pairs in WebVid10M vs. 5B image-text pairs in LAION), considering the high cost
of video captioning. Instead, it could be far easier to collect unlabeled clips
from video platforms like YouTube. Motivated by this, we come up with a novel
text-to-video generation framework, termed TF-T2V, which can directly learn
with text-free videos. The rationale behind is to separate the process of text
decoding from that of temporal modeling. To this end, we employ a content
branch and a motion branch, which are jointly optimized with weights shared.
Following such a pipeline, we study the effect of doubling the scale of
training set (i.e., video-only WebVid10M) with some randomly collected
text-free videos and are encouraged to observe the performance improvement (FID
from 9.67 to 8.19 and FVD from 484 to 441), demonstrating the scalability of
our approach. We also find that our model could enjoy sustainable performance
gain (FID from 8.19 to 7.64 and FVD from 441 to 366) after reintroducing some
text labels for training. Finally, we validate the effectiveness and
generalizability of our ideology on both native text-to-video generation and
compositional video synthesis paradigms. Code and models will be publicly
available at https://tf-t2v.github.io/.

---

## 9. [HarmonyView: Harmonizing Consistency and Diversity in One-Image-to-3D](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.15980)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.15980](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15980)

**Authors**: Sangmin Woo, Byeongjun Park, Hyojun Go, Jin-Young Kim, Changick Kim

**Published**: 2023-12-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/byeongjun-park/HarmonyView) | [Project Page](https://byeongjun-park.github.io/HarmonyView/)

### Abstract

Recent progress in single-image 3D generation highlights the importance of
multi-view coherency, leveraging 3D priors from large-scale diffusion models
pretrained on Internet-scale images. However, the aspect of novel-view
diversity remains underexplored within the research landscape due to the
ambiguity in converting a 2D image into 3D content, where numerous potential
shapes can emerge. Here, we aim to address this research gap by simultaneously
addressing both consistency and diversity. Yet, striking a balance between
these two aspects poses a considerable challenge due to their inherent
trade-offs. This work introduces HarmonyView, a simple yet effective diffusion
sampling technique adept at decomposing two intricate aspects in single-image
3D generation: consistency and diversity. This approach paves the way for a
more nuanced exploration of the two critical dimensions within the sampling
process. Moreover, we propose a new evaluation metric based on CLIP image and
text encoders to comprehensively assess the diversity of the generated views,
which closely aligns with human evaluators' judgments. In experiments,
HarmonyView achieves a harmonious balance, demonstrating a win-win scenario in
both consistency and diversity.

---

## 10. [One-dimensional Adapter to Rule Them All: Concepts, Diffusion Models and
  Erasing Applications](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.16145)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.16145](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16145)

**Authors**: Mengyao Lyu, Yuhong Yang, Haiwen Hong, Hui Chen, Xuan Jin, Yuan He, Hui Xue, Jungong Han, Guiguang Ding

**Published**: 2023-12-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Con6924/SPM)

### Abstract

The prevalent use of commercial and open-source diffusion models (DMs) for
text-to-image generation prompts risk mitigation to prevent undesired
behaviors. Existing concept erasing methods in academia are all based on full
parameter or specification-based fine-tuning, from which we observe the
following issues: 1) Generation alternation towards erosion: Parameter drift
during target elimination causes alternations and potential deformations across
all generations, even eroding other concepts at varying degrees, which is more
evident with multi-concept erased; 2) Transfer inability & deployment
inefficiency: Previous model-specific erasure impedes the flexible combination
of concepts and the training-free transfer towards other models, resulting in
linear cost growth as the deployment scenarios increase. To achieve
non-invasive, precise, customizable, and transferable elimination, we ground
our erasing framework on one-dimensional adapters to erase multiple concepts
from most DMs at once across versatile erasing applications. The
concept-SemiPermeable structure is injected as a Membrane (SPM) into any DM to
learn targeted erasing, and meantime the alteration and erosion phenomenon is
effectively mitigated via a novel Latent Anchoring fine-tuning strategy. Once
obtained, SPMs can be flexibly combined and plug-and-play for other DMs without
specific re-tuning, enabling timely and efficient adaptation to diverse
scenarios. During generation, our Facilitated Transport mechanism dynamically
regulates the permeability of each SPM to respond to different input prompts,
further minimizing the impact on other concepts. Quantitative and qualitative
results across ~40 concepts, 7 DMs and 4 erasing applications have demonstrated
the superior erasing of SPM. Our code and pre-tuned SPMs will be available on
the project page https://lyumengyao.github.io/projects/spm.

---

## 11. [Human101: Training 100+FPS Human Gaussians in 100s from 1 View](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.15258)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.15258](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15258)

**Authors**: Mingwei Li, Jiachen Tao, Zongxin Yang, Yi Yang

**Published**: 2023-12-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/longxiang-ai/human101)

### Abstract

Reconstructing the human body from single-view videos plays a pivotal role in
the virtual reality domain. One prevalent application scenario necessitates the
rapid reconstruction of high-fidelity 3D digital humans while simultaneously
ensuring real-time rendering and interaction. Existing methods often struggle
to fulfill both requirements. In this paper, we introduce Human101, a novel
framework adept at producing high-fidelity dynamic 3D human reconstructions
from 1-view videos by training 3D Gaussians in 100 seconds and rendering in
100+ FPS. Our method leverages the strengths of 3D Gaussian Splatting, which
provides an explicit and efficient representation of 3D humans. Standing apart
from prior NeRF-based pipelines, Human101 ingeniously applies a Human-centric
Forward Gaussian Animation method to deform the parameters of 3D Gaussians,
thereby enhancing rendering speed (i.e., rendering 1024-resolution images at an
impressive 60+ FPS and rendering 512-resolution images at 100+ FPS).
Experimental results indicate that our approach substantially eclipses current
methods, clocking up to a 10 times surge in frames per second and delivering
comparable or superior rendering quality. Code and demos will be released at
https://github.com/longxiang-ai/Human101.

---

## 12. [Supervised Knowledge Makes Large Language Models Better In-context
  Learners](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.15918)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.15918](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15918)

**Authors**: Linyi Yang, Shuibai Zhang, Zhuohao Yu, Guangsheng Bao, Yidong Wang, Jindong Wang, Ruochen Xu, Wei Ye, Xing Xie, Weizhu Chen, Yue Zhang

**Published**: 2023-12-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yanglinyi/supervised-knowledge-makes-large-language-models-better-in-context-learners)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit emerging in-context learning abilities
through prompt engineering. The recent progress in large-scale generative
models has further expanded their use in real-world language applications.
However, the critical challenge of improving the generalizability and
factuality of LLMs in natural language understanding and question answering
remains under-explored. While previous in-context learning research has focused
on enhancing models to adhere to users' specific instructions and quality
expectations, and to avoid undesired outputs, little to no work has explored
the use of task-Specific fine-tuned Language Models (SLMs) to improve LLMs'
in-context learning during the inference stage. Our primary contribution is the
establishment of a simple yet effective framework that enhances the reliability
of LLMs as it: 1) generalizes out-of-distribution data, 2) elucidates how LLMs
benefit from discriminative models, and 3) minimizes hallucinations in
generative tasks. Using our proposed plug-in method, enhanced versions of Llama
2 and ChatGPT surpass their original versions regarding generalizability and
factuality. We offer a comprehensive suite of resources, including 16 curated
datasets, prompts, model checkpoints, and LLM outputs across 9 distinct tasks.
Our empirical analysis sheds light on the advantages of incorporating
discriminative models into LLMs and highlights the potential of our methodology
in fostering more reliable LLMs.

---
