# Daily Papers - 2023-12-04

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-12-04)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [Mamba: Linear-Time Sequence Modeling with Selective State Spaces](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00752)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00752](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00752)

**Authors**: Albert Gu, Tri Dao

**Published**: 2023-12-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 150

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/state-spaces/mamba)

### Abstract

Foundation models, now powering most of the exciting applications in deep
learning, are almost universally based on the Transformer architecture and its
core attention module. Many subquadratic-time architectures such as linear
attention, gated convolution and recurrent models, and structured state space
models (SSMs) have been developed to address Transformers' computational
inefficiency on long sequences, but they have not performed as well as
attention on important modalities such as language. We identify that a key
weakness of such models is their inability to perform content-based reasoning,
and make several improvements. First, simply letting the SSM parameters be
functions of the input addresses their weakness with discrete modalities,
allowing the model to selectively propagate or forget information along the
sequence length dimension depending on the current token. Second, even though
this change prevents the use of efficient convolutions, we design a
hardware-aware parallel algorithm in recurrent mode. We integrate these
selective SSMs into a simplified end-to-end neural network architecture without
attention or even MLP blocks (Mamba). Mamba enjoys fast inference (5times
higher throughput than Transformers) and linear scaling in sequence length, and
its performance improves on real data up to million-length sequences. As a
general sequence model backbone, Mamba achieves state-of-the-art performance
across several modalities such as language, audio, and genomics. On language
modeling, our Mamba-3B model outperforms Transformers of the same size and
matches Transformers twice its size, both in pretraining and downstream
evaluation.

---

## 2. [MoMask: Generative Masked Modeling of 3D Human Motions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00063)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00063](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00063)

**Authors**: Chuan Guo, Yuxuan Mu, Muhammad Gohar Javed, Sen Wang, Li Cheng

**Published**: 2023-11-29 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/EricGuo5513/momask-codes)

### Abstract

We introduce MoMask, a novel masked modeling framework for text-driven 3D
human motion generation. In MoMask, a hierarchical quantization scheme is
employed to represent human motion as multi-layer discrete motion tokens with
high-fidelity details. Starting at the base layer, with a sequence of motion
tokens obtained by vector quantization, the residual tokens of increasing
orders are derived and stored at the subsequent layers of the hierarchy. This
is consequently followed by two distinct bidirectional transformers. For the
base-layer motion tokens, a Masked Transformer is designated to predict
randomly masked motion tokens conditioned on text input at training stage.
During generation (i.e. inference) stage, starting from an empty sequence, our
Masked Transformer iteratively fills up the missing tokens; Subsequently, a
Residual Transformer learns to progressively predict the next-layer tokens
based on the results from current layer. Extensive experiments demonstrate that
MoMask outperforms the state-of-art methods on the text-to-motion generation
task, with an FID of 0.045 (vs e.g. 0.141 of T2M-GPT) on the HumanML3D dataset,
and 0.228 (vs 0.514) on KIT-ML, respectively. MoMask can also be seamlessly
applied in related tasks without further model fine-tuning, such as text-guided
temporal inpainting.

---

## 3. [DREAM: Diffusion Rectification and Estimation-Adaptive Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00210)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00210](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00210)

**Authors**: Jinxin Zhou, Tianyu Ding, Tianyi Chen, Jiachen Jiang, Ilya Zharkov, Zhihui Zhu, Luming Liang

**Published**: 2023-11-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jinxinzhou/dream)

### Abstract

We present DREAM, a novel training framework representing Diffusion
Rectification and Estimation-Adaptive Models, requiring minimal code changes
(just three lines) yet significantly enhancing the alignment of training with
sampling in diffusion models. DREAM features two components: diffusion
rectification, which adjusts training to reflect the sampling process, and
estimation adaptation, which balances perception against distortion. When
applied to image super-resolution (SR), DREAM adeptly navigates the tradeoff
between minimizing distortion and preserving high image quality. Experiments
demonstrate DREAM's superiority over standard diffusion-based SR methods,
showing a 2 to 3times  faster training convergence and a 10 to
20times reduction in necessary sampling steps to achieve comparable or
superior results. We hope DREAM will inspire a rethinking of diffusion model
training paradigms.

---

## 4. [RLHF-V: Towards Trustworthy MLLMs via Behavior Alignment from
  Fine-grained Correctional Human Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00849)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00849](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00849)

**Authors**: Tianyu Yu, Yuan Yao, Haoye Zhang, Taiwen He, Yifeng Han, Ganqu Cui, Jinyi Hu, Hai-Tao Zheng, Maosong Sun, Tat-Seng Chua

**Published**: 2023-12-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/exgc/r1v-free)

### Abstract

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have recently demonstrated
impressive capabilities in multimodal understanding, reasoning, and
interaction. However, existing MLLMs prevalently suffer from serious
hallucination problems, generating text that is not factually grounded in
associated images. The problem makes existing MLLMs untrustworthy and thus
impractical in real-world (especially high-stakes) applications. To address the
challenge, we present RLHF-V, which enhances MLLM trustworthiness via behavior
alignment from fine-grained correctional human feedback. Specifically, RLHF-V
collects human preference in the form of segment-level corrections on
hallucinations, and performs dense direct preference optimization over the
human feedback. Comprehensive experiments on five benchmarks in both automatic
and human evaluation show that, RLHF-V can enable substantially more
trustworthy MLLM behaviors with promising data and computation efficiency.
Remarkably, using 1.4k annotated data samples, RLHF-V significantly reduces the
hallucination rate of the base MLLM by 34.8%, outperforming the concurrent
LLaVA-RLHF trained on 10k annotated data. The final model achieves
state-of-the-art performance in trustworthiness among open-source MLLMs, and
shows better robustness than GPT-4V in preventing hallucinations aroused from
over-generalization. We open-source our code, model, and data at
https://github.com/RLHF-V/RLHF-V.

---

## 5. [FSGS: Real-Time Few-shot View Synthesis using Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00451)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00451](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00451)

**Authors**: Zehao Zhu, Zhiwen Fan, Yifan Jiang, Zhangyang Wang

**Published**: 2023-12-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vita-group/fsgs)

### Abstract

Novel view synthesis from limited observations remains an important and
persistent task. However, high efficiency in existing NeRF-based few-shot view
synthesis is often compromised to obtain an accurate 3D representation. To
address this challenge, we propose a few-shot view synthesis framework based on
3D Gaussian Splatting that enables real-time and photo-realistic view synthesis
with as few as three training views. The proposed method, dubbed FSGS, handles
the extremely sparse initialized SfM points with a thoughtfully designed
Gaussian Unpooling process. Our method iteratively distributes new Gaussians
around the most representative locations, subsequently infilling local details
in vacant areas. We also integrate a large-scale pre-trained monocular depth
estimator within the Gaussians optimization process, leveraging online
augmented views to guide the geometric optimization towards an optimal
solution. Starting from sparse points observed from limited input viewpoints,
our FSGS can accurately grow into unseen regions, comprehensively covering the
scene and boosting the rendering quality of novel views. Overall, FSGS achieves
state-of-the-art performance in both accuracy and rendering efficiency across
diverse datasets, including LLFF, Mip-NeRF360, and Blender. Project website:
https://zehaozhu.github.io/FSGS/.

---

## 6. [Scaffold-GS: Structured 3D Gaussians for View-Adaptive Rendering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00109)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00109](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00109)

**Authors**: Tao Lu, Mulin Yu, Linning Xu, Yuanbo Xiangli, Limin Wang, Dahua Lin, Bo Dai

**Published**: 2023-11-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/city-super/Scaffold-GS)

### Abstract

Neural rendering methods have significantly advanced photo-realistic 3D scene
rendering in various academic and industrial applications. The recent 3D
Gaussian Splatting method has achieved the state-of-the-art rendering quality
and speed combining the benefits of both primitive-based representations and
volumetric representations. However, it often leads to heavily redundant
Gaussians that try to fit every training view, neglecting the underlying scene
geometry. Consequently, the resulting model becomes less robust to significant
view changes, texture-less area and lighting effects. We introduce Scaffold-GS,
which uses anchor points to distribute local 3D Gaussians, and predicts their
attributes on-the-fly based on viewing direction and distance within the view
frustum. Anchor growing and pruning strategies are developed based on the
importance of neural Gaussians to reliably improve the scene coverage. We show
that our method effectively reduces redundant Gaussians while delivering
high-quality rendering. We also demonstrates an enhanced capability to
accommodate scenes with varying levels-of-detail and view-dependent
observations, without sacrificing the rendering speed.

---

## 7. [Text-Guided 3D Face Synthesis -- From Generation to Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00375)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00375](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00375)

**Authors**: Yunjie Wu, Yapeng Meng, Zhipeng Hu, Lincheng Li, Haoqian Wu, Kun Zhou, Xin Yu

**Published**: 2023-12-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/JiejiangWu/FaceG2E)

### Abstract

Text-guided 3D face synthesis has achieved remarkable results by leveraging
text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models. However, most existing works focus solely
on the direct generation, ignoring the editing, restricting them from
synthesizing customized 3D faces through iterative adjustments. In this paper,
we propose a unified text-guided framework from face generation to editing. In
the generation stage, we propose a geometry-texture decoupled generation to
mitigate the loss of geometric details caused by coupling. Besides, decoupling
enables us to utilize the generated geometry as a condition for texture
generation, yielding highly geometry-texture aligned results. We further employ
a fine-tuned texture diffusion model to enhance texture quality in both RGB and
YUV space. In the editing stage, we first employ a pre-trained diffusion model
to update facial geometry or texture based on the texts. To enable sequential
editing, we introduce a UV domain consistency preservation regularization,
preventing unintentional changes to irrelevant facial attributes. Besides, we
propose a self-guided consistency weight strategy to improve editing efficacy
while preserving consistency. Through comprehensive experiments, we showcase
our method's superiority in face synthesis. Project page:
https://faceg2e.github.io/.

---

## 8. [PyNeRF: Pyramidal Neural Radiance Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00252)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00252](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00252)

**Authors**: Haithem Turki, Michael Zollhöfer, Christian Richardt, Deva Ramanan

**Published**: 2023-11-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hturki/pynerf)

### Abstract

Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) can be dramatically accelerated by spatial
grid representations. However, they do not explicitly reason about scale and so
introduce aliasing artifacts when reconstructing scenes captured at different
camera distances. Mip-NeRF and its extensions propose scale-aware renderers
that project volumetric frustums rather than point samples but such approaches
rely on positional encodings that are not readily compatible with grid methods.
We propose a simple modification to grid-based models by training model heads
at different spatial grid resolutions. At render time, we simply use coarser
grids to render samples that cover larger volumes. Our method can be easily
applied to existing accelerated NeRF methods and significantly improves
rendering quality (reducing error rates by 20-90% across synthetic and
unbounded real-world scenes) while incurring minimal performance overhead (as
each model head is quick to evaluate). Compared to Mip-NeRF, we reduce error
rates by 20% while training over 60x faster.

---

## 9. [X-Dreamer: Creating High-quality 3D Content by Bridging the Domain Gap
  Between Text-to-2D and Text-to-3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00085)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.00085](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00085)

**Authors**: Yiwei Ma, Yijun Fan, Jiayi Ji, Haowei Wang, Xiaoshuai Sun, Guannan Jiang, Annan Shu, Rongrong Ji

**Published**: 2023-11-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-12-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xmu-xiaoma666/X-Dreamer)

### Abstract

In recent times, automatic text-to-3D content creation has made significant
progress, driven by the development of pretrained 2D diffusion models. Existing
text-to-3D methods typically optimize the 3D representation to ensure that the
rendered image aligns well with the given text, as evaluated by the pretrained
2D diffusion model. Nevertheless, a substantial domain gap exists between 2D
images and 3D assets, primarily attributed to variations in camera-related
attributes and the exclusive presence of foreground objects. Consequently,
employing 2D diffusion models directly for optimizing 3D representations may
lead to suboptimal outcomes. To address this issue, we present X-Dreamer, a
novel approach for high-quality text-to-3D content creation that effectively
bridges the gap between text-to-2D and text-to-3D synthesis. The key components
of X-Dreamer are two innovative designs: Camera-Guided Low-Rank Adaptation
(CG-LoRA) and Attention-Mask Alignment (AMA) Loss. CG-LoRA dynamically
incorporates camera information into the pretrained diffusion models by
employing camera-dependent generation for trainable parameters. This
integration enhances the alignment between the generated 3D assets and the
camera's perspective. AMA loss guides the attention map of the pretrained
diffusion model using the binary mask of the 3D object, prioritizing the
creation of the foreground object. This module ensures that the model focuses
on generating accurate and detailed foreground objects. Extensive evaluations
demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method compared to existing
text-to-3D approaches. Our project webpage:
https://xmuxiaoma666.github.io/Projects/X-Dreamer .

---
