# Daily Papers - 2024-04-28

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-04-28)

Total papers: 2

---

## 1. [PLLaVA : Parameter-free LLaVA Extension from Images to Videos for Video
  Dense Captioning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.16994)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.16994](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16994)

**Authors**: Lin Xu, Yilin Zhao, Daquan Zhou, Zhijie Lin, See Kiong Ng, Jiashi Feng

**Published**: 2024-04-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 37

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/magic-research/PLLaVA)

### Abstract

Vision-language pre-training has significantly elevated performance across a
wide range of image-language applications. Yet, the pre-training process for
video-related tasks demands exceptionally large computational and data
resources, which hinders the progress of video-language models. This paper
investigates a straightforward, highly efficient, and resource-light approach
to adapting an existing image-language pre-trained model for dense video
understanding. Our preliminary experiments reveal that directly fine-tuning
pre-trained image-language models with multiple frames as inputs on video
datasets leads to performance saturation or even a drop. Our further
investigation reveals that it is largely attributed to the bias of learned
high-norm visual features. Motivated by this finding, we propose a simple but
effective pooling strategy to smooth the feature distribution along the
temporal dimension and thus reduce the dominant impacts from the extreme
features. The new model is termed Pooling LLaVA, or  in short.
 achieves new state-of-the-art performance on modern benchmark
datasets for both video question-answer and captioning tasks. Notably, on the
recent popular Video ChatGPT benchmark, PLLaVA achieves a score of 3.48 out of
5 on average of five evaluated dimensions, exceeding the previous SOTA results
from GPT4V (IG-VLM) by 9\%. On the latest multi-choice benchmark MVBench,
PLLaVA achieves 58.1\% accuracy on average across 20 sub-tasks, 14.5\% higher
than GPT4V (IG-VLM). Code is available at
https://github.com/magic-research/PLLaVA.

---

## 2. [HaLo-NeRF: Learning Geometry-Guided Semantics for Exploring
  Unconstrained Photo Collections](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.16845)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.16845](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16845)

**Authors**: Chen Dudai, Morris Alper, Hana Bezalel, Rana Hanocka, Itai Lang, Hadar Averbuch-Elor

**Published**: 2024-02-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/TAU-VAILab/HaLo-NeRF)

### Abstract

Internet image collections containing photos captured by crowds of
photographers show promise for enabling digital exploration of large-scale
tourist landmarks. However, prior works focus primarily on geometric
reconstruction and visualization, neglecting the key role of language in
providing a semantic interface for navigation and fine-grained understanding.
In constrained 3D domains, recent methods have leveraged vision-and-language
models as a strong prior of 2D visual semantics. While these models display an
excellent understanding of broad visual semantics, they struggle with
unconstrained photo collections depicting such tourist landmarks, as they lack
expert knowledge of the architectural domain. In this work, we present a
localization system that connects neural representations of scenes depicting
large-scale landmarks with text describing a semantic region within the scene,
by harnessing the power of SOTA vision-and-language models with adaptations for
understanding landmark scene semantics. To bolster such models with
fine-grained knowledge, we leverage large-scale Internet data containing images
of similar landmarks along with weakly-related textual information. Our
approach is built upon the premise that images physically grounded in space can
provide a powerful supervision signal for localizing new concepts, whose
semantics may be unlocked from Internet textual metadata with large language
models. We use correspondences between views of scenes to bootstrap spatial
understanding of these semantics, providing guidance for 3D-compatible
segmentation that ultimately lifts to a volumetric scene representation. Our
results show that HaLo-NeRF can accurately localize a variety of semantic
concepts related to architectural landmarks, surpassing the results of other 3D
models as well as strong 2D segmentation baselines. Our project page is at
https://tau-vailab.github.io/HaLo-NeRF/.

---
