# Daily Papers - 2024-04-22

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-04-22)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [AutoCrawler: A Progressive Understanding Web Agent for Web Crawler
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12753)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12753](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12753)

**Authors**: Wenhao Huang, Chenghao Peng, Zhixu Li, Jiaqing Liang, Yanghua Xiao, Liqian Wen, Zulong Chen

**Published**: 2024-04-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 43

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ez-hwh/autocrawler)

### Abstract

Web automation is a significant technique that accomplishes complicated web
tasks by automating common web actions, enhancing operational efficiency, and
reducing the need for manual intervention. Traditional methods, such as
wrappers, suffer from limited adaptability and scalability when faced with a
new website. On the other hand, generative agents empowered by large language
models (LLMs) exhibit poor performance and reusability in open-world scenarios.
In this work, we introduce a crawler generation task for vertical information
web pages and the paradigm of combining LLMs with crawlers, which helps
crawlers handle diverse and changing web environments more efficiently. We
propose AutoCrawler, a two-stage framework that leverages the hierarchical
structure of HTML for progressive understanding. Through top-down and step-back
operations, AutoCrawler can learn from erroneous actions and continuously prune
HTML for better action generation. We conduct comprehensive experiments with
multiple LLMs and demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework. Resources of
this paper can be found at https://github.com/EZ-hwh/AutoCrawler

---

## 2. [Groma: Localized Visual Tokenization for Grounding Multimodal Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.13013)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.13013](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.13013)

**Authors**: Chuofan Ma, Yi Jiang, Jiannan Wu, Zehuan Yuan, Xiaojuan Qi

**Published**: 2024-04-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/FoundationVision/Groma)

### Abstract

We introduce Groma, a Multimodal Large Language Model (MLLM) with grounded
and fine-grained visual perception ability. Beyond holistic image
understanding, Groma is adept at region-level tasks such as region captioning
and visual grounding. Such capabilities are built upon a localized visual
tokenization mechanism, where an image input is decomposed into regions of
interest and subsequently encoded into region tokens. By integrating region
tokens into user instructions and model responses, we seamlessly enable Groma
to understand user-specified region inputs and ground its textual output to
images. Besides, to enhance the grounded chat ability of Groma, we curate a
visually grounded instruction dataset by leveraging the powerful GPT-4V and
visual prompting techniques. Compared with MLLMs that rely on the language
model or external module for localization, Groma consistently demonstrates
superior performances in standard referring and grounding benchmarks,
highlighting the advantages of embedding localization into image tokenization.
Project page: https://groma-mllm.github.io/.

---

## 3. [TextSquare: Scaling up Text-Centric Visual Instruction Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12803)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12803](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12803)

**Authors**: Jingqun Tang, Chunhui Lin, Zhen Zhao, Shu Wei, Binghong Wu, Qi Liu, Hao Feng, Yang Li, Siqi Wang, Lei Liao, Wei Shi, Yuliang Liu, Hao Liu, Yuan Xie, Xiang Bai, Can Huang

**Published**: 2024-04-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

### Abstract

Text-centric visual question answering (VQA) has made great strides with the
development of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), yet open-source models
still fall short of leading models like GPT4V and Gemini, partly due to a lack
of extensive, high-quality instruction tuning data. To this end, we introduce a
new approach for creating a massive, high-quality instruction-tuning dataset,
Square-10M, which is generated using closed-source MLLMs. The data construction
process, termed Square, consists of four steps: Self-Questioning, Answering,
Reasoning, and Evaluation. Our experiments with Square-10M led to three key
findings: 1) Our model, TextSquare, considerably surpasses open-source previous
state-of-the-art Text-centric MLLMs and sets a new standard on OCRBench(62.2%).
It even outperforms top-tier models like GPT4V and Gemini in 6 of 10
text-centric benchmarks. 2) Additionally, we demonstrate the critical role of
VQA reasoning data in offering comprehensive contextual insights for specific
questions. This not only improves accuracy but also significantly mitigates
hallucinations. Specifically, TextSquare scores an average of 75.1% across four
general VQA and hallucination evaluation datasets, outperforming previous
state-of-the-art models. 3) Notably, the phenomenon observed in scaling
text-centric VQA datasets reveals a vivid pattern: the exponential increase of
instruction tuning data volume is directly proportional to the improvement in
model performance, thereby validating the necessity of the dataset scale and
the high quality of Square-10M.

---

## 4. [PhysDreamer: Physics-Based Interaction with 3D Objects via Video
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.13026)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.13026](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.13026)

**Authors**: Tianyuan Zhang, Hong-Xing Yu, Rundi Wu, Brandon Y. Feng, Changxi Zheng, Noah Snavely, Jiajun Wu, William T. Freeman

**Published**: 2024-04-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

Realistic object interactions are crucial for creating immersive virtual
experiences, yet synthesizing realistic 3D object dynamics in response to novel
interactions remains a significant challenge. Unlike unconditional or
text-conditioned dynamics generation, action-conditioned dynamics requires
perceiving the physical material properties of objects and grounding the 3D
motion prediction on these properties, such as object stiffness. However,
estimating physical material properties is an open problem due to the lack of
material ground-truth data, as measuring these properties for real objects is
highly difficult. We present PhysDreamer, a physics-based approach that endows
static 3D objects with interactive dynamics by leveraging the object dynamics
priors learned by video generation models. By distilling these priors,
PhysDreamer enables the synthesis of realistic object responses to novel
interactions, such as external forces or agent manipulations. We demonstrate
our approach on diverse examples of elastic objects and evaluate the realism of
the synthesized interactions through a user study. PhysDreamer takes a step
towards more engaging and realistic virtual experiences by enabling static 3D
objects to dynamically respond to interactive stimuli in a physically plausible
manner. See our project page at https://physdreamer.github.io/.

---

## 5. [LLM-R2: A Large Language Model Enhanced Rule-based Rewrite System for
  Boosting Query Efficiency](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12872)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12872](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12872)

**Authors**: Zhaodonghui Li, Haitao Yuan, Huiming Wang, Gao Cong, Lidong Bing

**Published**: 2024-04-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/damo-nlp-sg/llm-r2)

### Abstract

Query rewrite, which aims to generate more efficient queries by altering a
SQL query's structure without changing the query result, has been an important
research problem. In order to maintain equivalence between the rewritten query
and the original one during rewriting, traditional query rewrite methods always
rewrite the queries following certain rewrite rules. However, some problems
still remain. Firstly, existing methods of finding the optimal choice or
sequence of rewrite rules are still limited and the process always costs a lot
of resources. Methods involving discovering new rewrite rules typically require
complicated proofs of structural logic or extensive user interactions.
Secondly, current query rewrite methods usually rely highly on DBMS cost
estimators which are often not accurate. In this paper, we address these
problems by proposing a novel method of query rewrite named LLM-R2, adopting a
large language model (LLM) to propose possible rewrite rules for a database
rewrite system. To further improve the inference ability of LLM in recommending
rewrite rules, we train a contrastive model by curriculum to learn query
representations and select effective query demonstrations for the LLM.
Experimental results have shown that our method can significantly improve the
query execution efficiency and outperform the baseline methods. In addition,
our method enjoys high robustness across different datasets.

---

## 6. [Does Gaussian Splatting need SFM Initialization?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12547)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12547](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12547)

**Authors**: Yalda Foroutan, Daniel Rebain, Kwang Moo Yi, Andrea Tagliasacchi

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

3D Gaussian Splatting has recently been embraced as a versatile and effective
method for scene reconstruction and novel view synthesis, owing to its
high-quality results and compatibility with hardware rasterization. Despite its
advantages, Gaussian Splatting's reliance on high-quality point cloud
initialization by Structure-from-Motion (SFM) algorithms is a significant
limitation to be overcome. To this end, we investigate various initialization
strategies for Gaussian Splatting and delve into how volumetric reconstructions
from Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) can be utilized to bypass the dependency on
SFM data. Our findings demonstrate that random initialization can perform much
better if carefully designed and that by employing a combination of improved
initialization strategies and structure distillation from low-cost NeRF models,
it is possible to achieve equivalent results, or at times even superior, to
those obtained from SFM initialization.

---

## 7. [How Far Can We Go with Practical Function-Level Program Repair?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12833)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12833](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12833)

**Authors**: Jiahong Xiang, Xiaoyang Xu, Fanchu Kong, Mingyuan Wu, Haotian Zhang, Yuqun Zhang

**Published**: 2024-04-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ghabix/srepair)

### Abstract

Recently, multiple Automated Program Repair (APR) techniques based on Large
Language Models (LLMs) have been proposed to enhance the repair performance.
While these techniques mainly focus on the single-line or hunk-level repair,
they face significant challenges in real-world application due to the limited
repair task scope and costly statement-level fault localization. However, the
more practical function-level APR, which broadens the scope of APR task to fix
entire buggy functions and requires only cost-efficient function-level fault
localization, remains underexplored. In this paper, we conduct the first
comprehensive study of LLM-based function-level APR including investigating the
effect of the few-shot learning mechanism and the auxiliary repair-relevant
information. Specifically, we adopt six widely-studied LLMs and construct a
benchmark in both the Defects4J 1.2 and 2.0 datasets. Our study demonstrates
that LLMs with zero-shot learning are already powerful function-level APR
techniques, while applying the few-shot learning mechanism leads to disparate
repair performance. Moreover, we find that directly applying the auxiliary
repair-relevant information to LLMs significantly increases function-level
repair performance. Inspired by our findings, we propose an LLM-based
function-level APR technique, namely SRepair, which adopts a dual-LLM framework
to leverage the power of the auxiliary repair-relevant information for
advancing the repair performance. The evaluation results demonstrate that
SRepair can correctly fix 300 single-function bugs in the Defects4J dataset,
largely surpassing all previous APR techniques by at least 85%, without the
need for the costly statement-level fault location information. Furthermore,
SRepair successfully fixes 32 multi-function bugs in the Defects4J dataset,
which is the first time achieved by any APR technique ever to our best
knowledge.

---
