# Daily Papers - 2024-04-24

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-04-24)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [OpenELM: An Efficient Language Model Family with Open-source Training
  and Inference Framework](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.14619)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.14619](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14619)

**Authors**: Sachin Mehta, Mohammad Hossein Sekhavat, Qingqing Cao, Maxwell Horton, Yanzi Jin, Chenfan Sun, Iman Mirzadeh, Mahyar Najibi, Dmitry Belenko, Peter Zatloukal, Mohammad Rastegari

**Published**: 2024-04-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 126

### Abstract

The reproducibility and transparency of large language models are crucial for
advancing open research, ensuring the trustworthiness of results, and enabling
investigations into data and model biases, as well as potential risks. To this
end, we release OpenELM, a state-of-the-art open language model. OpenELM uses a
layer-wise scaling strategy to efficiently allocate parameters within each
layer of the transformer model, leading to enhanced accuracy. For example, with
a parameter budget of approximately one billion parameters, OpenELM exhibits a
2.36% improvement in accuracy compared to OLMo while requiring 2times fewer
pre-training tokens.
  Diverging from prior practices that only provide model weights and inference
code, and pre-train on private datasets, our release includes the complete
framework for training and evaluation of the language model on publicly
available datasets, including training logs, multiple checkpoints, and
pre-training configurations. We also release code to convert models to MLX
library for inference and fine-tuning on Apple devices. This comprehensive
release aims to empower and strengthen the open research community, paving the
way for future open research endeavors.
  Our source code along with pre-trained model weights and training recipes is
available at https://github.com/apple/corenet. Additionally, \model
models can be found on HuggingFace at:
https://huggingface.co/apple/OpenELM.

---

## 2. [Multi-Head Mixture-of-Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.15045)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.15045](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.15045)

**Authors**: Xun Wu, Shaohan Huang, Wenhui Wang, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2024-04-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 60

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yushuiwx/mh-moe)

### Abstract

Sparse Mixtures of Experts (SMoE) scales model capacity without significant
increases in training and inference costs, but exhibits the following two
issues: (1) Low expert activation, where only a small subset of experts are
activated for optimization. (2) Lacking fine-grained analytical capabilities
for multiple semantic concepts within individual tokens. We propose Multi-Head
Mixture-of-Experts (MH-MoE), which employs a multi-head mechanism to split each
token into multiple sub-tokens. These sub-tokens are then assigned to and
processed by a diverse set of experts in parallel, and seamlessly reintegrated
into the original token form. The multi-head mechanism enables the model to
collectively attend to information from various representation spaces within
different experts, while significantly enhances expert activation, thus deepens
context understanding and alleviate overfitting. Moreover, our MH-MoE is
straightforward to implement and decouples from other SMoE optimization
methods, making it easy to integrate with other SMoE models for enhanced
performance. Extensive experimental results across three tasks: English-focused
language modeling, Multi-lingual language modeling and Masked multi-modality
modeling tasks, demonstrate the effectiveness of MH-MoE.

---

## 3. [Pegasus-v1 Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.14687)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.14687](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14687)

**Authors**: Raehyuk Jung, Hyojun Go, Jaehyuk Yi, Jiho Jang, Daniel Kim, Jay Suh, Aiden Lee, Cooper Han, Jae Lee, Jeff Kim, Jin-Young Kim, Junwan Kim, Kyle Park, Lucas Lee, Mars Ha, Minjoon Seo, Abraham Jo, Ed Park, Hassan Kianinejad, SJ Kim, Tony Moon, Wade Jeong, Andrei Popescu, Esther Kim, EK Yoon, Genie Heo, Henry Choi, Jenna Kang, Kevin Han, Noah Seo, Sunny Nguyen, Ryan Won, Yeonhoo Park, Anthony Giuliani, Dave Chung, Hans Yoon, James Le, Jenny Ahn, June Lee, Maninder Saini, Meredith Sanders, Soyoung Lee, Sue Kim, Travis Couture

**Published**: 2024-04-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

This technical report introduces Pegasus-1, a multimodal language model
specialized in video content understanding and interaction through natural
language. Pegasus-1 is designed to address the unique challenges posed by video
data, such as interpreting spatiotemporal information, to offer nuanced video
content comprehension across various lengths. This technical report overviews
Pegasus-1's architecture, training strategies, and its performance in
benchmarks on video conversation, zero-shot video question answering, and video
summarization. We also explore qualitative characteristics of Pegasus-1 ,
demonstrating its capabilities as well as its limitations, in order to provide
readers a balanced view of its current state and its future direction.

---

## 4. [FlashSpeech: Efficient Zero-Shot Speech Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.14700)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.14700](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14700)

**Authors**: Zhen Ye, Zeqian Ju, Haohe Liu, Xu Tan, Jianyi Chen, Yiwen Lu, Peiwen Sun, Jiahao Pan, Weizhen Bian, Shulin He, Qifeng Liu, Yike Guo

**Published**: 2024-04-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zhenye234/CoMoSpeech)

### Abstract

Recent progress in large-scale zero-shot speech synthesis has been
significantly advanced by language models and diffusion models. However, the
generation process of both methods is slow and computationally intensive.
Efficient speech synthesis using a lower computing budget to achieve quality on
par with previous work remains a significant challenge. In this paper, we
present FlashSpeech, a large-scale zero-shot speech synthesis system with
approximately 5\% of the inference time compared with previous work.
FlashSpeech is built on the latent consistency model and applies a novel
adversarial consistency training approach that can train from scratch without
the need for a pre-trained diffusion model as the teacher. Furthermore, a new
prosody generator module enhances the diversity of prosody, making the rhythm
of the speech sound more natural. The generation processes of FlashSpeech can
be achieved efficiently with one or two sampling steps while maintaining high
audio quality and high similarity to the audio prompt for zero-shot speech
generation. Our experimental results demonstrate the superior performance of
FlashSpeech. Notably, FlashSpeech can be about 20 times faster than other
zero-shot speech synthesis systems while maintaining comparable performance in
terms of voice quality and similarity. Furthermore, FlashSpeech demonstrates
its versatility by efficiently performing tasks like voice conversion, speech
editing, and diverse speech sampling. Audio samples can be found in
https://flashspeech.github.io/.

---

## 5. [SnapKV: LLM Knows What You are Looking for Before Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.14469)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.14469](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14469)

**Authors**: Yuhong Li, Yingbing Huang, Bowen Yang, Bharat Venkitesh, Acyr Locatelli, Hanchen Ye, Tianle Cai, Patrick Lewis, Deming Chen

**Published**: 2024-04-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/fasterdecoding/snapkv)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have made remarkable progress in processing
extensive contexts, with the Key-Value (KV) cache playing a vital role in
enhancing their performance. However, the growth of the KV cache in response to
increasing input length poses challenges to memory and time efficiency. To
address this problem, this paper introduces SnapKV, an innovative and
fine-tuning-free approach that efficiently minimizes KV cache size while still
delivering comparable performance in real-world applications.
  We discover that each attention head in the model consistently focuses on
specific prompt attention features during generation. Meanwhile, this robust
pattern can be obtained from an `observation' window located at the end of the
prompts. Drawing on this insight, SnapKV automatically compresses KV caches by
selecting clustered important KV positions for each attention head. Our
approach significantly reduces the growing computational overhead and memory
footprint when processing long input sequences. Specifically, SnapKV achieves a
consistent decoding speed with a 3.6x increase in generation speed and an 8.2x
enhancement in memory efficiency compared to baseline when processing inputs of
16K tokens. At the same time, it maintains comparable performance to baseline
models across 16 long sequence datasets. Moreover, SnapKV can process up to
380K context tokens on a single A100-80GB GPU using HuggingFace implementation
with minor changes, exhibiting only a negligible accuracy drop in the
Needle-in-a-Haystack test. Further comprehensive studies suggest SnapKV's
potential for practical applications.

---

## 6. [Align Your Steps: Optimizing Sampling Schedules in Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.14507)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.14507](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14507)

**Authors**: Amirmojtaba Sabour, Sanja Fidler, Karsten Kreis

**Published**: 2024-04-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Diffusion models (DMs) have established themselves as the state-of-the-art
generative modeling approach in the visual domain and beyond. A crucial
drawback of DMs is their slow sampling speed, relying on many sequential
function evaluations through large neural networks. Sampling from DMs can be
seen as solving a differential equation through a discretized set of noise
levels known as the sampling schedule. While past works primarily focused on
deriving efficient solvers, little attention has been given to finding optimal
sampling schedules, and the entire literature relies on hand-crafted
heuristics. In this work, for the first time, we propose a general and
principled approach to optimizing the sampling schedules of DMs for
high-quality outputs, called Align Your Steps. We leverage methods
from stochastic calculus and find optimal schedules specific to different
solvers, trained DMs and datasets. We evaluate our novel approach on several
image, video as well as 2D toy data synthesis benchmarks, using a variety of
different samplers, and observe that our optimized schedules outperform
previous hand-crafted schedules in almost all experiments. Our method
demonstrates the untapped potential of sampling schedule optimization,
especially in the few-step synthesis regime.

---

## 7. [Transformers Can Represent n-gram Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.14994)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.14994](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14994)

**Authors**: Anej Svete, Ryan Cotterell

**Published**: 2024-04-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/rycolab/transformer-ngrams)

### Abstract

Plenty of existing work has analyzed the abilities of the transformer
architecture by describing its representational capacity with formal models of
computation. However, the focus so far has been on analyzing the architecture
in terms of language acceptance. We contend that this is an ill-suited
problem in the study of language models (LMs), which are definitionally
probability distributions over strings. In this paper, we focus on the
relationship between transformer LMs and n-gram LMs, a simple and
historically relevant class of language models. We show that transformer LMs
using the hard or sparse attention mechanisms can exactly represent any
n-gram LM, giving us a concrete lower bound on their probabilistic
representational capacity. This provides a first step towards understanding the
mechanisms that transformer LMs can use to represent probability distributions
over strings.

---
