# Daily Papers - 2024-04-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-04-10)

Total papers: 14

---

## 1. [OmniFusion Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.06212)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.06212](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06212)

**Authors**: Elizaveta Goncharova, Anton Razzhigaev, Matvey Mikhalchuk, Maxim Kurkin, Irina Abdullaeva, Matvey Skripkin, Ivan Oseledets, Denis Dimitrov, Andrey Kuznetsov

**Published**: 2024-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 77

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/airi-institute/omnifusion)

### Abstract

Last year, multimodal architectures served up a revolution in AI-based
approaches and solutions, extending the capabilities of large language models
(LLM). We propose an OmniFusion model based on a pretrained LLM and
adapters for visual modality. We evaluated and compared several architecture
design principles for better text and visual data coupling: MLP and transformer
adapters, various CLIP ViT-based encoders (SigLIP, InternVIT, etc.), and their
fusing approach, image encoding method (whole image or tiles encoding) and two
7B LLMs (the proprietary one and open-source Mistral). Experiments on 8
visual-language benchmarks show the top score for the best OmniFusion setup in
terms of different VQA tasks in comparison with open-source LLaVA-like
solutions: VizWiz, Pope, MM-Vet, ScienceQA, MMBench, TextVQA, VQAv2, MMMU. We
also propose a variety of situations, where OmniFusion provides highly-detailed
answers in different domains: housekeeping, sightseeing, culture, medicine,
handwritten and scanned equations recognition, etc. Mistral-based OmniFusion
model is an open-source solution with weights, training and inference scripts
available at https://github.com/AIRI-Institute/OmniFusion.

---

## 2. [LLM2Vec: Large Language Models Are Secretly Powerful Text Encoders](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.05961)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.05961](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05961)

**Organization**: McGill NLP Group

**Authors**: Parishad BehnamGhader, Vaibhav Adlakha, Marius Mosbach, Dzmitry Bahdanau, Nicolas Chapados, Siva Reddy

**Published**: 2024-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 66

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mcgill-nlp/llm2vec)

### Abstract

Large decoder-only language models (LLMs) are the state-of-the-art models on
most of today's NLP tasks and benchmarks. Yet, the community is only slowly
adopting these models for text embedding tasks, which require rich
contextualized representations. In this work, we introduce LLM2Vec, a simple
unsupervised approach that can transform any decoder-only LLM into a strong
text encoder. LLM2Vec consists of three simple steps: 1) enabling bidirectional
attention, 2) masked next token prediction, and 3) unsupervised contrastive
learning. We demonstrate the effectiveness of LLM2Vec by applying it to 3
popular LLMs ranging from 1.3B to 7B parameters and evaluate the transformed
models on English word- and sequence-level tasks. We outperform encoder-only
models by a large margin on word-level tasks and reach a new unsupervised
state-of-the-art performance on the Massive Text Embeddings Benchmark (MTEB).
Moreover, when combining LLM2Vec with supervised contrastive learning, we
achieve state-of-the-art performance on MTEB among models that train only on
publicly available data. Our strong empirical results and extensive analysis
demonstrate that LLMs can be effectively transformed into universal text
encoders in a parameter-efficient manner without the need for expensive
adaptation or synthetic GPT-4 generated data.

---

## 3. [Eagle and Finch: RWKV with Matrix-Valued States and Dynamic Recurrence](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.05892)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.05892](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05892)

**Authors**: Bo Peng, Daniel Goldstein, Quentin Anthony, Alon Albalak, Eric Alcaide, Stella Biderman, Eugene Cheah, Teddy Ferdinan, Haowen Hou, Przemysław Kazienko, Kranthi Kiran GV, Jan Kocoń, Bartłomiej Koptyra, Satyapriya Krishna, Ronald McClelland Jr., Niklas Muennighoff, Fares Obeid, Atsushi Saito, Guangyu Song, Haoqin Tu, Stanisław Woźniak, Ruichong Zhang, Bingchen Zhao, Qihang Zhao, Peng Zhou, Jian Zhu, Rui-Jie Zhu

**Published**: 2024-04-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 40

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/rwkv/rwkv-infctx-trainer)

### Abstract

We present Eagle (RWKV-5) and Finch (RWKV-6), sequence models improving upon
the RWKV (RWKV-4) architecture. Our architectural design advancements include
multi-headed matrix-valued states and a dynamic recurrence mechanism that
improve expressivity while maintaining the inference efficiency characteristics
of RNNs. We introduce a new multilingual corpus with 1.12 trillion tokens and a
fast tokenizer based on greedy matching for enhanced multilinguality. We
trained four Eagle models, ranging from 0.46 to 7.5 billion parameters, and two
Finch models with 1.6 and 3.1 billion parameters and find that they achieve
competitive performance across a wide variety of benchmarks. We release all our
models on HuggingFace under the Apache 2.0 license. Models at:
https://huggingface.co/RWKV Training code at: https://github.com/RWKV/RWKV-LM
Inference code at: https://github.com/RWKV/ChatRWKV Time-parallel training code
at: https://github.com/RWKV/RWKV-infctx-trainer

---

## 4. [InternLM-XComposer2-4KHD: A Pioneering Large Vision-Language Model
  Handling Resolutions from 336 Pixels to 4K HD](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.06512)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.06512](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06512)

**Authors**: Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Yuhang Zang, Yuhang Cao, Linke Ouyang, Songyang Zhang, Haodong Duan, Wenwei Zhang, Yining Li, Hang Yan, Yang Gao, Zhe Chen, Xinyue Zhang, Wei Li, Jingwen Li, Wenhai Wang, Kai Chen, Conghui He, Xingcheng Zhang, Jifeng Dai, Yu Qiao, Dahua Lin, Jiaqi Wang

**Published**: 2024-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

### Abstract

The Large Vision-Language Model (LVLM) field has seen significant
advancements, yet its progression has been hindered by challenges in
comprehending fine-grained visual content due to limited resolution. Recent
efforts have aimed to enhance the high-resolution understanding capabilities of
LVLMs, yet they remain capped at approximately 1500 x 1500 pixels and
constrained to a relatively narrow resolution range. This paper represents
InternLM-XComposer2-4KHD, a groundbreaking exploration into elevating LVLM
resolution capabilities up to 4K HD (3840 x 1600) and beyond. Concurrently,
considering the ultra-high resolution may not be necessary in all scenarios, it
supports a wide range of diverse resolutions from 336 pixels to 4K standard,
significantly broadening its scope of applicability. Specifically, this
research advances the patch division paradigm by introducing a novel extension:
dynamic resolution with automatic patch configuration. It maintains the
training image aspect ratios while automatically varying patch counts and
configuring layouts based on a pre-trained Vision Transformer (ViT) (336 x
336), leading to dynamic training resolution from 336 pixels to 4K standard.
Our research demonstrates that scaling training resolution up to 4K HD leads to
consistent performance enhancements without hitting the ceiling of potential
improvements. InternLM-XComposer2-4KHD shows superb capability that matches or
even surpasses GPT-4V and Gemini Pro in 10 of the 16 benchmarks. The
InternLM-XComposer2-4KHD model series with 7B parameters are publicly available
at https://github.com/InternLM/InternLM-XComposer.

---

## 5. [MiniCPM: Unveiling the Potential of Small Language Models with Scalable
  Training Strategies](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.06395)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.06395](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06395)

**Authors**: Shengding Hu, Yuge Tu, Xu Han, Chaoqun He, Ganqu Cui, Xiang Long, Zhi Zheng, Yewei Fang, Yuxiang Huang, Weilin Zhao, Xinrong Zhang, Zheng Leng Thai, Kaihuo Zhang, Chongyi Wang, Yuan Yao, Chenyang Zhao, Jie Zhou, Jie Cai, Zhongwu Zhai, Ning Ding, Chao Jia, Guoyang Zeng, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2024-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

The burgeoning interest in developing Large Language Models (LLMs) with up to
trillion parameters has been met with concerns regarding resource efficiency
and practical expense, particularly given the immense cost of experimentation.
This scenario underscores the importance of exploring the potential of Small
Language Models (SLMs) as a resource-efficient alternative. In this context, we
introduce MiniCPM, specifically the 1.2B and 2.4B non-embedding parameter
variants, not only excel in their respective categories but also demonstrate
capabilities on par with 7B-13B LLMs. While focusing on SLMs, our approach
exhibits scalability in both model and data dimensions for future LLM research.
Regarding model scaling, we employ extensive model wind tunnel experiments for
stable and optimal scaling. For data scaling, we introduce a
Warmup-Stable-Decay (WSD) learning rate scheduler (LRS), conducive to
continuous training and domain adaptation. We present an in-depth analysis of
the intriguing training dynamics that occurred in the WSD LRS. With WSD LRS, we
are now able to efficiently study data-model scaling law without extensive
retraining experiments on both axes of model and data, from which we derive the
much higher compute optimal data-model ratio than Chinchilla Optimal.
Additionally, we introduce MiniCPM family, including MiniCPM-DPO, MiniCPM-MoE
and MiniCPM-128K, whose excellent performance further cementing MiniCPM's
foundation in diverse SLM applications. MiniCPM models are available publicly
at https://github.com/OpenBMB/MiniCPM .

---

## 6. [CodecLM: Aligning Language Models with Tailored Synthetic Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.05875)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.05875](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05875)

**Authors**: Zifeng Wang, Chun-Liang Li, Vincent Perot, Long T. Le, Jin Miao, Zizhao Zhang, Chen-Yu Lee, Tomas Pfister

**Published**: 2024-04-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Instruction tuning has emerged as the key in aligning large language models
(LLMs) with specific task instructions, thereby mitigating the discrepancy
between the next-token prediction objective and users' actual goals. To reduce
the labor and time cost to collect or annotate data by humans, researchers
start to explore the use of LLMs to generate instruction-aligned synthetic
data. Recent works focus on generating diverse instructions and applying LLM to
increase instruction complexity, often neglecting downstream use cases. It
remains unclear how to tailor high-quality data to elicit better
instruction-following abilities in different target instruction distributions
and LLMs. To this end, we introduce CodecLM, a general framework for adaptively
generating high-quality synthetic data for LLM alignment with different
downstream instruction distributions and LLMs. Drawing on the Encode-Decode
principles, we use LLMs as codecs to guide the data generation process. We
first encode seed instructions into metadata, which are concise keywords
generated on-the-fly to capture the target instruction distribution, and then
decode metadata to create tailored instructions. We also introduce Self-Rubrics
and Contrastive Filtering during decoding to tailor data-efficient samples.
Extensive experiments on four open-domain instruction following benchmarks
validate the effectiveness of CodecLM over the current state-of-the-arts.

---

## 7. [MuPT: A Generative Symbolic Music Pretrained Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.06393)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.06393](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06393)

**Authors**: Xingwei Qu, Yuelin Bai, Yinghao Ma, Ziya Zhou, Ka Man Lo, Jiaheng Liu, Ruibin Yuan, Lejun Min, Xueling Liu, Tianyu Zhang, Xinrun Du, Shuyue Guo, Yiming Liang, Yizhi Li, Shangda Wu, Junting Zhou, Tianyu Zheng, Ziyang Ma, Fengze Han, Gus Xia, Emmanouil Benetos, Xiang Yue, Chenghua Lin, Xu Tan, Stephen W. Huang, Wenhu Chen, Jie Fu, Ge Zhang

**Published**: 2024-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

In this paper, we explore the application of Large Language Models (LLMs) to
the pre-training of music. While the prevalent use of MIDI in music modeling is
well-established, our findings suggest that LLMs are inherently more compatible
with ABC Notation, which aligns more closely with their design and strengths,
thereby enhancing the model's performance in musical composition. To address
the challenges associated with misaligned measures from different tracks during
generation, we propose the development of a Synchronized
Multi-Track ABC Notation (SMT-ABC Notation),
which aims to preserve coherence across multiple musical tracks. Our
contributions include a series of models capable of handling up to 8192 tokens,
covering 90\% of the symbolic music data in our training set. Furthermore, we
explore the implications of the Symbolic Music
Scaling Law (SMS Law) on model performance. The results
indicate a promising direction for future research in music generation,
offering extensive resources for community-led research through our open-source
contributions.

---

## 8. [Hash3D: Training-free Acceleration for 3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.06091)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.06091](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06091)

**Authors**: Xingyi Yang, Xinchao Wang

**Published**: 2024-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Adamdad/hash3D)

### Abstract

The evolution of 3D generative modeling has been notably propelled by the
adoption of 2D diffusion models. Despite this progress, the cumbersome
optimization process per se presents a critical hurdle to efficiency. In this
paper, we introduce Hash3D, a universal acceleration for 3D generation without
model training. Central to Hash3D is the insight that feature-map redundancy is
prevalent in images rendered from camera positions and diffusion time-steps in
close proximity. By effectively hashing and reusing these feature maps across
neighboring timesteps and camera angles, Hash3D substantially prevents
redundant calculations, thus accelerating the diffusion model's inference in 3D
generation tasks. We achieve this through an adaptive grid-based hashing.
Surprisingly, this feature-sharing mechanism not only speed up the generation
but also enhances the smoothness and view consistency of the synthesized 3D
objects. Our experiments covering 5 text-to-3D and 3 image-to-3D models,
demonstrate Hash3D's versatility to speed up optimization, enhancing efficiency
by 1.3 to 4 times. Additionally, Hash3D's integration with 3D Gaussian
splatting largely speeds up 3D model creation, reducing text-to-3D processing
to about 10 minutes and image-to-3D conversion to roughly 30 seconds. The
project page is at https://adamdad.github.io/hash3D/.

---

## 9. [SambaLingo: Teaching Large Language Models New Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.05829)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.05829](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05829)

**Authors**: Zoltan Csaki, Bo Li, Jonathan Li, Qiantong Xu, Pian Pawakapan, Leon Zhang, Yun Du, Hengyu Zhao, Changran Hu, Urmish Thakker

**Published**: 2024-04-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Despite the widespread availability of LLMs, there remains a substantial gap
in their capabilities and availability across diverse languages. One approach
to address these issues has been to take an existing pre-trained LLM and
continue to train it on new languages. While prior works have experimented with
language adaptation, many questions around best practices and methodology have
not been covered. In this paper, we present a comprehensive investigation into
the adaptation of LLMs to new languages. Our study covers the key components in
this process, including vocabulary extension, direct preference optimization
and the data scarcity problem for human alignment in low-resource languages. We
scale these experiments across 9 languages and 2 parameter scales (7B and 70B).
We compare our models against Llama 2, Aya-101, XGLM, BLOOM and existing
language experts, outperforming all prior published baselines. Additionally,
all evaluation code and checkpoints are made public to facilitate future
research.

---

## 10. [Urban Architect: Steerable 3D Urban Scene Generation with Layout Prior](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.06780)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.06780](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06780)

**Authors**: Fan Lu, Kwan-Yee Lin, Yan Xu, Hongsheng Li, Guang Chen, Changjun Jiang

**Published**: 2024-04-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/UrbanArchitect/UrbanArchitect)

### Abstract

Text-to-3D generation has achieved remarkable success via large-scale
text-to-image diffusion models. Nevertheless, there is no paradigm for scaling
up the methodology to urban scale. Urban scenes, characterized by numerous
elements, intricate arrangement relationships, and vast scale, present a
formidable barrier to the interpretability of ambiguous textual descriptions
for effective model optimization. In this work, we surmount the limitations by
introducing a compositional 3D layout representation into text-to-3D paradigm,
serving as an additional prior. It comprises a set of semantic primitives with
simple geometric structures and explicit arrangement relationships,
complementing textual descriptions and enabling steerable generation. Upon
this, we propose two modifications -- (1) We introduce Layout-Guided
Variational Score Distillation to address model optimization inadequacies. It
conditions the score distillation sampling process with geometric and semantic
constraints of 3D layouts. (2) To handle the unbounded nature of urban scenes,
we represent 3D scene with a Scalable Hash Grid structure, incrementally
adapting to the growing scale of urban scenes. Extensive experiments
substantiate the capability of our framework to scale text-to-3D generation to
large-scale urban scenes that cover over 1000m driving distance for the first
time. We also present various scene editing demonstrations, showing the powers
of steerable urban scene generation. Website: https://urbanarchitect.github.io.

---

## 11. [Revising Densification in Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.06109)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.06109](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06109)

**Authors**: Samuel Rota Bulò, Lorenzo Porzi, Peter Kontschieder

**Published**: 2024-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

In this paper, we address the limitations of Adaptive Density Control (ADC)
in 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS), a scene representation method achieving
high-quality, photorealistic results for novel view synthesis. ADC has been
introduced for automatic 3D point primitive management, controlling
densification and pruning, however, with certain limitations in the
densification logic. Our main contribution is a more principled, pixel-error
driven formulation for density control in 3DGS, leveraging an auxiliary,
per-pixel error function as the criterion for densification. We further
introduce a mechanism to control the total number of primitives generated per
scene and correct a bias in the current opacity handling strategy of ADC during
cloning operations. Our approach leads to consistent quality improvements
across a variety of benchmark scenes, without sacrificing the method's
efficiency.

---

## 12. [Magic-Boost: Boost 3D Generation with Mutli-View Conditioned Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.06429)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.06429](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06429)

**Authors**: Fan Yang, Jianfeng Zhang, Yichun Shi, Bowen Chen, Chenxu Zhang, Huichao Zhang, Xiaofeng Yang, Jiashi Feng, Guosheng Lin

**Published**: 2024-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/magic-research/magic-boost)

### Abstract

Benefiting from the rapid development of 2D diffusion models, 3D content
creation has made significant progress recently. One promising solution
involves the fine-tuning of pre-trained 2D diffusion models to harness their
capacity for producing multi-view images, which are then lifted into accurate
3D models via methods like fast-NeRFs or large reconstruction models. However,
as inconsistency still exists and limited generated resolution, the generation
results of such methods still lack intricate textures and complex geometries.
To solve this problem, we propose Magic-Boost, a multi-view conditioned
diffusion model that significantly refines coarse generative results through a
brief period of SDS optimization (sim15min). Compared to the previous text
or single image based diffusion models, Magic-Boost exhibits a robust
capability to generate images with high consistency from pseudo synthesized
multi-view images. It provides precise SDS guidance that well aligns with the
identity of the input images, enriching the local detail in both geometry and
texture of the initial generative results. Extensive experiments show
Magic-Boost greatly enhances the coarse inputs and generates high-quality 3D
assets with rich geometric and textural details. (Project Page:
https://magic-research.github.io/magic-boost/)

---

## 13. [Reconstructing Hand-Held Objects in 3D](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.06507)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.06507](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06507)

**Authors**: Jane Wu, Georgios Pavlakos, Georgia Gkioxari, Jitendra Malik

**Published**: 2024-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/janehwu/mcc-ho) | [Project Page](https://janehwu.github.io/mcc-ho)

### Abstract

Objects manipulated by the hand (i.e., manipulanda) are particularly
challenging to reconstruct from in-the-wild RGB images or videos. Not only does
the hand occlude much of the object, but also the object is often only visible
in a small number of image pixels. At the same time, two strong anchors emerge
in this setting: (1) estimated 3D hands help disambiguate the location and
scale of the object, and (2) the set of manipulanda is small relative to all
possible objects. With these insights in mind, we present a scalable paradigm
for handheld object reconstruction that builds on recent breakthroughs in large
language/vision models and 3D object datasets. Our model, MCC-Hand-Object
(MCC-HO), jointly reconstructs hand and object geometry given a single RGB
image and inferred 3D hand as inputs. Subsequently, we use GPT-4(V) to retrieve
a 3D object model that matches the object in the image and rigidly align the
model to the network-inferred geometry; we call this alignment
Retrieval-Augmented Reconstruction (RAR). Experiments demonstrate that MCC-HO
achieves state-of-the-art performance on lab and Internet datasets, and we show
how RAR can be used to automatically obtain 3D labels for in-the-wild images of
hand-object interactions.

---

## 14. [Elephants Never Forget: Memorization and Learning of Tabular Data in
  Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.06209)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.06209](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06209)

**Authors**: Sebastian Bordt, Harsha Nori, Vanessa Rodrigues, Besmira Nushi, Rich Caruana

**Published**: 2024-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/interpretml/llm-tabular-memorization-checker)

### Abstract

While many have shown how Large Language Models (LLMs) can be applied to a
diverse set of tasks, the critical issues of data contamination and
memorization are often glossed over. In this work, we address this concern for
tabular data. Specifically, we introduce a variety of different techniques to
assess whether a language model has seen a tabular dataset during training.
This investigation reveals that LLMs have memorized many popular tabular
datasets verbatim. We then compare the few-shot learning performance of LLMs on
datasets that were seen during training to the performance on datasets released
after training. We find that LLMs perform better on datasets seen during
training, indicating that memorization leads to overfitting. At the same time,
LLMs show non-trivial performance on novel datasets and are surprisingly robust
to data transformations. We then investigate the in-context statistical
learning abilities of LLMs. Without fine-tuning, we find them to be limited.
This suggests that much of the few-shot performance on novel datasets is due to
the LLM's world knowledge. Overall, our results highlight the importance of
testing whether an LLM has seen an evaluation dataset during pre-training. We
make the exposure tests we developed available as the tabmemcheck Python
package at https://github.com/interpretml/LLM-Tabular-Memorization-Checker

---
