# Daily Papers - 2024-04-01

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-04-01)

Total papers: 10

---

## 1. [Jamba: A Hybrid Transformer-Mamba Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.19887)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.19887](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19887)

**Authors**: Opher Lieber, Barak Lenz, Hofit Bata, Gal Cohen, Jhonathan Osin, Itay Dalmedigos, Erez Safahi, Shaked Meirom, Yonatan Belinkov, Shai Shalev-Shwartz, Omri Abend, Raz Alon, Tomer Asida, Amir Bergman, Roman Glozman, Michael Gokhman, Avashalom Manevich, Nir Ratner, Noam Rozen, Erez Shwartz, Mor Zusman, Yoav Shoham

**Published**: 2024-03-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 112

### Abstract

We present Jamba, a new base large language model based on a novel hybrid
Transformer-Mamba mixture-of-experts (MoE) architecture. Specifically, Jamba
interleaves blocks of Transformer and Mamba layers, enjoying the benefits of
both model families. MoE is added in some of these layers to increase model
capacity while keeping active parameter usage manageable. This flexible
architecture allows resource- and objective-specific configurations. In the
particular configuration we have implemented, we end up with a powerful model
that fits in a single 80GB GPU. Built at large scale, Jamba provides high
throughput and small memory footprint compared to vanilla Transformers, and at
the same time state-of-the-art performance on standard language model
benchmarks and long-context evaluations. Remarkably, the model presents strong
results for up to 256K tokens context length. We study various architectural
decisions, such as how to combine Transformer and Mamba layers, and how to mix
experts, and show that some of them are crucial in large scale modeling. We
also describe several interesting properties of these architectures which the
training and evaluation of Jamba have revealed, and plan to release checkpoints
from various ablation runs, to encourage further exploration of this novel
architecture. We make the weights of our implementation of Jamba publicly
available under a permissive license.

---

## 2. [Gecko: Versatile Text Embeddings Distilled from Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.20327)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.20327](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20327)

**Authors**: Jinhyuk Lee, Zhuyun Dai, Xiaoqi Ren, Blair Chen, Daniel Cer, Jeremy R. Cole, Kai Hui, Michael Boratko, Rajvi Kapadia, Wen Ding, Yi Luan, Sai Meher Karthik Duddu, Gustavo Hernandez Abrego, Weiqiang Shi, Nithi Gupta, Aditya Kusupati, Prateek Jain, Siddhartha Reddy Jonnalagadda, Ming-Wei Chang, Iftekhar Naim

**Published**: 2024-03-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 48

### Abstract

We present Gecko, a compact and versatile text embedding model. Gecko
achieves strong retrieval performance by leveraging a key idea: distilling
knowledge from large language models (LLMs) into a retriever. Our two-step
distillation process begins with generating diverse, synthetic paired data
using an LLM. Next, we further refine the data quality by retrieving a set of
candidate passages for each query, and relabeling the positive and hard
negative passages using the same LLM. The effectiveness of our approach is
demonstrated by the compactness of the Gecko. On the Massive Text Embedding
Benchmark (MTEB), Gecko with 256 embedding dimensions outperforms all existing
entries with 768 embedding size. Gecko with 768 embedding dimensions achieves
an average score of 66.31, competing with 7x larger models and 5x higher
dimensional embeddings.

---

## 3. [Transformer-Lite: High-efficiency Deployment of Large Language Models on
  Mobile Phone GPUs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.20041)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.20041](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20041)

**Authors**: Luchang Li, Sheng Qian, Jie Lu, Lunxi Yuan, Rui Wang, Qin Xie

**Published**: 2024-03-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 34

### Abstract

The Large Language Model (LLM) is widely employed for tasks such as
intelligent assistants, text summarization, translation, and multi-modality on
mobile phones. However, the current methods for on-device LLM deployment
maintain slow inference speed, which causes poor user experience. To facilitate
high-efficiency LLM deployment on device GPUs, we propose four optimization
techniques: (a) a symbolic expression-based approach to support dynamic shape
model inference; (b) operator optimizations and execution priority setting to
enhance inference speed and reduce phone lagging; (c) an FP4 quantization
method termed M0E4 to reduce dequantization overhead; (d) a sub-tensor-based
technique to eliminate the need for copying KV cache after LLM inference.
Furthermore, we implement these methods in our mobile inference engine,
Transformer-Lite, which is compatible with both Qualcomm and MTK processors. We
evaluated Transformer-Lite's performance using LLMs with varied architectures
and parameters ranging from 2B to 14B. Specifically, we achieved prefill and
decoding speeds of 121 token/s and 14 token/s for ChatGLM2 6B, and 330 token/s
and 30 token/s for smaller Gemma 2B, respectively. Compared with CPU-based
FastLLM and GPU-based MLC-LLM, our engine attains over 10x speedup for the
prefill speed and 2~3x speedup for the decoding speed.

---

## 4. [ReALM: Reference Resolution As Language Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.20329)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.20329](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20329)

**Authors**: Joel Ruben Antony Moniz, Soundarya Krishnan, Melis Ozyildirim, Prathamesh Saraf, Halim Cagri Ates, Yuan Zhang, Hong Yu, Nidhi Rajshree

**Published**: 2024-03-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Reference resolution is an important problem, one that is essential to
understand and successfully handle context of different kinds. This context
includes both previous turns and context that pertains to non-conversational
entities, such as entities on the user's screen or those running in the
background. While LLMs have been shown to be extremely powerful for a variety
of tasks, their use in reference resolution, particularly for
non-conversational entities, remains underutilized. This paper demonstrates how
LLMs can be used to create an extremely effective system to resolve references
of various types, by showing how reference resolution can be converted into a
language modeling problem, despite involving forms of entities like those on
screen that are not traditionally conducive to being reduced to a text-only
modality. We demonstrate large improvements over an existing system with
similar functionality across different types of references, with our smallest
model obtaining absolute gains of over 5% for on-screen references. We also
benchmark against GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, with our smallest model achieving
performance comparable to that of GPT-4, and our larger models substantially
outperforming it.

---

## 5. [InstantSplat: Unbounded Sparse-view Pose-free Gaussian Splatting in 40
  Seconds](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.20309)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.20309](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20309)

**Authors**: Zhiwen Fan, Wenyan Cong, Kairun Wen, Kevin Wang, Jian Zhang, Xinghao Ding, Danfei Xu, Boris Ivanovic, Marco Pavone, Georgios Pavlakos, Zhangyang Wang, Yue Wang

**Published**: 2024-03-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NVlabs/InstantSplat)

### Abstract

While novel view synthesis (NVS) has made substantial progress in 3D computer
vision, it typically requires an initial estimation of camera intrinsics and
extrinsics from dense viewpoints. This pre-processing is usually conducted via
a Structure-from-Motion (SfM) pipeline, a procedure that can be slow and
unreliable, particularly in sparse-view scenarios with insufficient matched
features for accurate reconstruction. In this work, we integrate the strengths
of point-based representations (e.g., 3D Gaussian Splatting, 3D-GS) with
end-to-end dense stereo models (DUSt3R) to tackle the complex yet unresolved
issues in NVS under unconstrained settings, which encompasses pose-free and
sparse view challenges. Our framework, InstantSplat, unifies dense stereo
priors with 3D-GS to build 3D Gaussians of large-scale scenes from sparseview &
pose-free images in less than 1 minute. Specifically, InstantSplat comprises a
Coarse Geometric Initialization (CGI) module that swiftly establishes a
preliminary scene structure and camera parameters across all training views,
utilizing globally-aligned 3D point maps derived from a pre-trained dense
stereo pipeline. This is followed by the Fast 3D-Gaussian Optimization (F-3DGO)
module, which jointly optimizes the 3D Gaussian attributes and the initialized
poses with pose regularization. Experiments conducted on the large-scale
outdoor Tanks & Temples datasets demonstrate that InstantSplat significantly
improves SSIM (by 32%) while concurrently reducing Absolute Trajectory Error
(ATE) by 80%. These establish InstantSplat as a viable solution for scenarios
involving posefree and sparse-view conditions. Project page:
instantsplat.github.io.

---

## 6. [Unsolvable Problem Detection: Evaluating Trustworthiness of Vision
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.20331)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.20331](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20331)

**Authors**: Atsuyuki Miyai, Jingkang Yang, Jingyang Zhang, Yifei Ming, Qing Yu, Go Irie, Yixuan Li, Hai Li, Ziwei Liu, Kiyoharu Aizawa

**Published**: 2024-03-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/atsumiyai/upd)

### Abstract

This paper introduces a novel and significant challenge for Vision Language
Models (VLMs), termed Unsolvable Problem Detection (UPD). UPD examines the
VLM's ability to withhold answers when faced with unsolvable problems in the
context of Visual Question Answering (VQA) tasks. UPD encompasses three
distinct settings: Absent Answer Detection (AAD), Incompatible Answer Set
Detection (IASD), and Incompatible Visual Question Detection (IVQD). To deeply
investigate the UPD problem, extensive experiments indicate that most VLMs,
including GPT-4V and LLaVA-Next-34B, struggle with our benchmarks to varying
extents, highlighting significant room for the improvements. To address UPD, we
explore both training-free and training-based solutions, offering new insights
into their effectiveness and limitations. We hope our insights, together with
future efforts within the proposed UPD settings, will enhance the broader
understanding and development of more practical and reliable VLMs.

---

## 7. [Localizing Paragraph Memorization in Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.19851)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.19851](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19851)

**Authors**: Niklas Stoehr, Mitchell Gordon, Chiyuan Zhang, Owen Lewis

**Published**: 2024-03-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/googleinterns/localizing-paragraph-memorization)

### Abstract

Can we localize the weights and mechanisms used by a language model to
memorize and recite entire paragraphs of its training data? In this paper, we
show that while memorization is spread across multiple layers and model
components, gradients of memorized paragraphs have a distinguishable spatial
pattern, being larger in lower model layers than gradients of non-memorized
examples. Moreover, the memorized examples can be unlearned by fine-tuning only
the high-gradient weights. We localize a low-layer attention head that appears
to be especially involved in paragraph memorization. This head is predominantly
focusing its attention on distinctive, rare tokens that are least frequent in a
corpus-level unigram distribution. Next, we study how localized memorization is
across the tokens in the prefix by perturbing tokens and measuring the caused
change in the decoding. A few distinctive tokens early in a prefix can often
corrupt the entire continuation. Overall, memorized continuations are not only
harder to unlearn, but also to corrupt than non-memorized ones.

---

## 8. [DiJiang: Efficient Large Language Models through Compact Kernelization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.19928)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.19928](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19928)

**Authors**: Hanting Chen, Zhicheng Liu, Xutao Wang, Yuchuan Tian, Yunhe Wang

**Published**: 2024-03-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yuchuantian/dijiang)

### Abstract

In an effort to reduce the computational load of Transformers, research on
linear attention has gained significant momentum. However, the improvement
strategies for attention mechanisms typically necessitate extensive retraining,
which is impractical for large language models with a vast array of parameters.
In this paper, we present DiJiang, a novel Frequency Domain Kernelization
approach that enables the transformation of a pre-trained vanilla Transformer
into a linear complexity model with little training costs. By employing a
weighted Quasi-Monte Carlo method for sampling, the proposed approach
theoretically offers superior approximation efficiency. To further reduce the
training computational complexity, our kernelization is based on Discrete
Cosine Transform (DCT) operations. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the
proposed method achieves comparable performance to the original Transformer,
but with significantly reduced training costs and much faster inference speeds.
Our DiJiang-7B achieves comparable performance with LLaMA2-7B on various
benchmark while requires only about 1/50 training cost. Code is available at
https://github.com/YuchuanTian/DiJiang.

---

## 9. [MambaMixer: Efficient Selective State Space Models with Dual Token and
  Channel Selection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.19888)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.19888](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19888)

**Authors**: Ali Behrouz, Michele Santacatterina, Ramin Zabih

**Published**: 2024-03-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MambaMixer/M2)

### Abstract

Recent advances in deep learning have mainly relied on Transformers due to
their data dependency and ability to learn at scale. The attention module in
these architectures, however, exhibits quadratic time and space in input size,
limiting their scalability for long-sequence modeling. Despite recent attempts
to design efficient and effective architecture backbone for multi-dimensional
data, such as images and multivariate time series, existing models are either
data independent, or fail to allow inter- and intra-dimension communication.
Recently, State Space Models (SSMs), and more specifically Selective State
Space Models, with efficient hardware-aware implementation, have shown
promising potential for long sequence modeling. Motivated by the success of
SSMs, we present MambaMixer, a new architecture with data-dependent weights
that uses a dual selection mechanism across tokens and channels, called
Selective Token and Channel Mixer. MambaMixer connects selective mixers using a
weighted averaging mechanism, allowing layers to have direct access to early
features. As a proof of concept, we design Vision MambaMixer (ViM2) and Time
Series MambaMixer (TSM2) architectures based on the MambaMixer block and
explore their performance in various vision and time series forecasting tasks.
Our results underline the importance of selective mixing across both tokens and
channels. In ImageNet classification, object detection, and semantic
segmentation tasks, ViM2 achieves competitive performance with well-established
vision models and outperforms SSM-based vision models. In time series
forecasting, TSM2 achieves outstanding performance compared to state-of-the-art
methods while demonstrating significantly improved computational cost. These
results show that while Transformers, cross-channel attention, and MLPs are
sufficient for good performance in time series forecasting, neither is
necessary.

---

## 10. [Snap-it, Tap-it, Splat-it: Tactile-Informed 3D Gaussian Splatting for
  Reconstructing Challenging Surfaces](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.20275)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.20275](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20275)

**Authors**: Mauro Comi, Alessio Tonioni, Max Yang, Jonathan Tremblay, Valts Blukis, Yijiong Lin, Nathan F. Lepora, Laurence Aitchison

**Published**: 2024-03-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Touch and vision go hand in hand, mutually enhancing our ability to
understand the world. From a research perspective, the problem of mixing touch
and vision is underexplored and presents interesting challenges. To this end,
we propose Tactile-Informed 3DGS, a novel approach that incorporates touch data
(local depth maps) with multi-view vision data to achieve surface
reconstruction and novel view synthesis. Our method optimises 3D Gaussian
primitives to accurately model the object's geometry at points of contact. By
creating a framework that decreases the transmittance at touch locations, we
achieve a refined surface reconstruction, ensuring a uniformly smooth depth
map. Touch is particularly useful when considering non-Lambertian objects (e.g.
shiny or reflective surfaces) since contemporary methods tend to fail to
reconstruct with fidelity specular highlights. By combining vision and tactile
sensing, we achieve more accurate geometry reconstructions with fewer images
than prior methods. We conduct evaluation on objects with glossy and reflective
surfaces and demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, offering
significant improvements in reconstruction quality.

---
