# Daily Papers - 2024-04-30

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-04-30)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [Replacing Judges with Juries: Evaluating LLM Generations with a Panel of
  Diverse Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.18796)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.18796](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.18796)

**Authors**: Pat Verga, Sebastian Hofstatter, Sophia Althammer, Yixuan Su, Aleksandra Piktus, Arkady Arkhangorodsky, Minjie Xu, Naomi White, Patrick Lewis

**Published**: 2024-04-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 71

### Abstract

As Large Language Models (LLMs) have become more advanced, they have outpaced
our abilities to accurately evaluate their quality. Not only is finding data to
adequately probe particular model properties difficult, but evaluating the
correctness of a model's freeform generation alone is a challenge. To address
this, many evaluations now rely on using LLMs themselves as judges to score the
quality of outputs from other LLMs. Evaluations most commonly use a single
large model like GPT4. While this method has grown in popularity, it is costly,
has been shown to introduce intramodel bias, and in this work, we find that
very large models are often unnecessary. We propose instead to evaluate models
using a Panel of LLm evaluators (PoLL). Across three distinct judge settings
and spanning six different datasets, we find that using a PoLL composed of a
larger number of smaller models outperforms a single large judge, exhibits less
intra-model bias due to its composition of disjoint model families, and does so
while being over seven times less expensive.

---

## 2. [Kangaroo: Lossless Self-Speculative Decoding via Double Early Exiting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.18911)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.18911](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.18911)

**Organization**: HUAWEI Noah's Ark Lab

**Authors**: Fangcheng Liu, Yehui Tang, Zhenhua Liu, Yunsheng Ni, Kai Han, Yunhe Wang

**Published**: 2024-04-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Equationliu/Kangaroo)

### Abstract

Speculative decoding has demonstrated its effectiveness in accelerating the
inference of large language models while maintaining a consistent sampling
distribution. However, the conventional approach of training a separate draft
model to achieve a satisfactory token acceptance rate can be costly. Drawing
inspiration from early exiting, we propose a novel self-speculative decoding
framework Kangaroo, which uses a fixed shallow sub-network as a
self-draft model, with the remaining layers serving as the larger target model.
We train a lightweight and efficient adapter module on top of the sub-network
to bridge the gap between the sub-network and the full model's representation
ability. It is noteworthy that the inference latency of the self-draft model
may no longer be negligible compared to the large model, necessitating
strategies to increase the token acceptance rate while minimizing the drafting
steps of the small model. To address this challenge, we introduce an additional
early exiting mechanism for generating draft tokens. Specifically, we halt the
small model's subsequent prediction during the drafting phase once the
confidence level for the current token falls below a certain threshold.
Extensive experiments on the Spec-Bench demonstrate the effectiveness of
Kangaroo. Under single-sequence verification, Kangaroo achieves speedups up to
1.68times on Spec-Bench, outperforming Medusa-1 with 88.7\% fewer additional
parameters (67M compared to 591M). The code for Kangaroo is available at
https://github.com/Equationliu/Kangaroo.

---

## 3. [Capabilities of Gemini Models in Medicine](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.18416)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.18416](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.18416)

**Authors**: Khaled Saab, Tao Tu, Wei-Hung Weng, Ryutaro Tanno, David Stutz, Ellery Wulczyn, Fan Zhang, Tim Strother, Chunjong Park, Elahe Vedadi, Juanma Zambrano Chaves, Szu-Yeu Hu, Mike Schaekermann, Aishwarya Kamath, Yong Cheng, David G. T. Barrett, Cathy Cheung, Basil Mustafa, Anil Palepu, Daniel McDuff, Le Hou, Tomer Golany, Luyang Liu, Jean-baptiste Alayrac, Neil Houlsby, Nenad Tomasev, Jan Freyberg, Charles Lau, Jonas Kemp, Jeremy Lai, Shekoofeh Azizi, Kimberly Kanada, SiWai Man, Kavita Kulkarni, Ruoxi Sun, Siamak Shakeri, Luheng He, Ben Caine, Albert Webson, Natasha Latysheva, Melvin Johnson, Philip Mansfield, Jian Lu, Ehud Rivlin, Jesper Anderson, Bradley Green, Renee Wong, Jonathan Krause, Jonathon Shlens, Ewa Dominowska, S. M. Ali Eslami, Claire Cui, Oriol Vinyals, Koray Kavukcuoglu, James Manyika, Jeff Dean, Demis Hassabis, Yossi Matias, Dale Webster, Joelle Barral, Greg Corrado, Christopher Semturs, S. Sara Mahdavi, Juraj Gottweis, Alan Karthikesalingam, Vivek Natarajan

**Published**: 2024-04-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

Excellence in a wide variety of medical applications poses considerable
challenges for AI, requiring advanced reasoning, access to up-to-date medical
knowledge and understanding of complex multimodal data. Gemini models, with
strong general capabilities in multimodal and long-context reasoning, offer
exciting possibilities in medicine. Building on these core strengths of Gemini,
we introduce Med-Gemini, a family of highly capable multimodal models that are
specialized in medicine with the ability to seamlessly use web search, and that
can be efficiently tailored to novel modalities using custom encoders. We
evaluate Med-Gemini on 14 medical benchmarks, establishing new state-of-the-art
(SoTA) performance on 10 of them, and surpass the GPT-4 model family on every
benchmark where a direct comparison is viable, often by a wide margin. On the
popular MedQA (USMLE) benchmark, our best-performing Med-Gemini model achieves
SoTA performance of 91.1% accuracy, using a novel uncertainty-guided search
strategy. On 7 multimodal benchmarks including NEJM Image Challenges and MMMU
(health & medicine), Med-Gemini improves over GPT-4V by an average relative
margin of 44.5%. We demonstrate the effectiveness of Med-Gemini's long-context
capabilities through SoTA performance on a needle-in-a-haystack retrieval task
from long de-identified health records and medical video question answering,
surpassing prior bespoke methods using only in-context learning. Finally,
Med-Gemini's performance suggests real-world utility by surpassing human
experts on tasks such as medical text summarization, alongside demonstrations
of promising potential for multimodal medical dialogue, medical research and
education. Taken together, our results offer compelling evidence for
Med-Gemini's potential, although further rigorous evaluation will be crucial
before real-world deployment in this safety-critical domain.

---

## 4. [LEGENT: Open Platform for Embodied Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.18243)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.18243](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.18243)

**Authors**: Zhili Cheng, Zhitong Wang, Jinyi Hu, Shengding Hu, An Liu, Yuge Tu, Pengkai Li, Lei Shi, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2024-04-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Despite advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) and Large Multimodal
Models (LMMs), their integration into language-grounded, human-like embodied
agents remains incomplete, hindering complex real-life task performance in
physical environments. Existing integrations often feature limited open
sourcing, challenging collective progress in this field. We introduce LEGENT,
an open, scalable platform for developing embodied agents using LLMs and LMMs.
LEGENT offers a dual approach: a rich, interactive 3D environment with
communicable and actionable agents, paired with a user-friendly interface, and
a sophisticated data generation pipeline utilizing advanced algorithms to
exploit supervision from simulated worlds at scale. In our experiments, an
embryonic vision-language-action model trained on LEGENT-generated data
surpasses GPT-4V in embodied tasks, showcasing promising generalization
capabilities.

---

## 5. [BlenderAlchemy: Editing 3D Graphics with Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.17672)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.17672](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.17672)

**Authors**: Ian Huang, Guandao Yang, Leonidas Guibas

**Published**: 2024-04-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Graphics design is important for various applications, including movie
production and game design. To create a high-quality scene, designers usually
need to spend hours in software like Blender, in which they might need to
interleave and repeat operations, such as connecting material nodes, hundreds
of times. Moreover, slightly different design goals may require completely
different sequences, making automation difficult. In this paper, we propose a
system that leverages Vision-Language Models (VLMs), like GPT-4V, to
intelligently search the design action space to arrive at an answer that can
satisfy a user's intent. Specifically, we design a vision-based edit generator
and state evaluator to work together to find the correct sequence of actions to
achieve the goal. Inspired by the role of visual imagination in the human
design process, we supplement the visual reasoning capabilities of VLMs with
"imagined" reference images from image-generation models, providing visual
grounding of abstract language descriptions. In this paper, we provide
empirical evidence suggesting our system can produce simple but tedious Blender
editing sequences for tasks such as editing procedural materials from text
and/or reference images, as well as adjusting lighting configurations for
product renderings in complex scenes.

---

## 6. [Stylus: Automatic Adapter Selection for Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.18928)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.18928](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.18928)

**Authors**: Michael Luo, Justin Wong, Brandon Trabucco, Yanping Huang, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Zhifeng Chen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Ion Stoica

**Published**: 2024-04-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Beyond scaling base models with more data or parameters, fine-tuned adapters
provide an alternative way to generate high fidelity, custom images at reduced
costs. As such, adapters have been widely adopted by open-source communities,
accumulating a database of over 100K adapters-most of which are highly
customized with insufficient descriptions. This paper explores the problem of
matching the prompt to a set of relevant adapters, built on recent work that
highlight the performance gains of composing adapters. We introduce Stylus,
which efficiently selects and automatically composes task-specific adapters
based on a prompt's keywords. Stylus outlines a three-stage approach that first
summarizes adapters with improved descriptions and embeddings, retrieves
relevant adapters, and then further assembles adapters based on prompts'
keywords by checking how well they fit the prompt. To evaluate Stylus, we
developed StylusDocs, a curated dataset featuring 75K adapters with
pre-computed adapter embeddings. In our evaluation on popular Stable Diffusion
checkpoints, Stylus achieves greater CLIP-FID Pareto efficiency and is twice as
preferred, with humans and multimodal models as evaluators, over the base
model. See stylus-diffusion.github.io for more.

---

## 7. [Ag2Manip: Learning Novel Manipulation Skills with Agent-Agnostic Visual
  and Action Representations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.17521)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.17521](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.17521)

**Authors**: Puhao Li, Tengyu Liu, Yuyang Li, Muzhi Han, Haoran Geng, Shu Wang, Yixin Zhu, Song-Chun Zhu, Siyuan Huang

**Published**: 2024-04-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Xiaoyao-Li/Ag2Manip)

### Abstract

Autonomous robotic systems capable of learning novel manipulation tasks are
poised to transform industries from manufacturing to service automation.
However, modern methods (e.g., VIP and R3M) still face significant hurdles,
notably the domain gap among robotic embodiments and the sparsity of successful
task executions within specific action spaces, resulting in misaligned and
ambiguous task representations. We introduce Ag2Manip (Agent-Agnostic
representations for Manipulation), a framework aimed at surmounting these
challenges through two key innovations: a novel agent-agnostic visual
representation derived from human manipulation videos, with the specifics of
embodiments obscured to enhance generalizability; and an agent-agnostic action
representation abstracting a robot's kinematics to a universal agent proxy,
emphasizing crucial interactions between end-effector and object. Ag2Manip's
empirical validation across simulated benchmarks like FrankaKitchen, ManiSkill,
and PartManip shows a 325% increase in performance, achieved without
domain-specific demonstrations. Ablation studies underline the essential
contributions of the visual and action representations to this success.
Extending our evaluations to the real world, Ag2Manip significantly improves
imitation learning success rates from 50% to 77.5%, demonstrating its
effectiveness and generalizability across both simulated and physical
environments.

---

## 8. [DressCode: Autoregressively Sewing and Generating Garments from Text
  Guidance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16465)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16465](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16465)

**Authors**: Kai He, Kaixin Yao, Qixuan Zhang, Jingyi Yu, Lingjie Liu, Lan Xu

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/IHe-KaiI/DressCode)

### Abstract

Apparel's significant role in human appearance underscores the importance of
garment digitalization for digital human creation. Recent advances in 3D
content creation are pivotal for digital human creation. Nonetheless, garment
generation from text guidance is still nascent. We introduce a text-driven 3D
garment generation framework, DressCode, which aims to democratize design for
novices and offer immense potential in fashion design, virtual try-on, and
digital human creation. For our framework, we first introduce SewingGPT, a
GPT-based architecture integrating cross-attention with text-conditioned
embedding to generate sewing patterns with text guidance. We also tailored a
pre-trained Stable Diffusion for high-quality, tile-based PBR texture
generation. By leveraging a large language model, our framework generates
CG-friendly garments through natural language interaction. Our method also
facilitates pattern completion and texture editing, simplifying the process for
designers by user-friendly interaction. With comprehensive evaluations and
comparisons with other state-of-the-art methods, our method showcases the best
quality and alignment with input prompts. User studies further validate our
high-quality rendering results, highlighting its practical utility and
potential in production settings.

---
