# Daily Papers - 2024-04-19

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-04-19)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [Toward Self-Improvement of LLMs via Imagination, Searching, and
  Criticizing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12253)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12253](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12253)

**Authors**: Ye Tian, Baolin Peng, Linfeng Song, Lifeng Jin, Dian Yu, Haitao Mi, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 55

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yetianjhu/alphallm)

### Abstract

Despite the impressive capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) on
various tasks, they still struggle with scenarios that involves complex
reasoning and planning. Recent work proposed advanced prompting techniques and
the necessity of fine-tuning with high-quality data to augment LLMs' reasoning
abilities. However, these approaches are inherently constrained by data
availability and quality. In light of this, self-correction and self-learning
emerge as viable solutions, employing strategies that allow LLMs to refine
their outputs and learn from self-assessed rewards. Yet, the efficacy of LLMs
in self-refining its response, particularly in complex reasoning and planning
task, remains dubious. In this paper, we introduce AlphaLLM for the
self-improvements of LLMs, which integrates Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) with
LLMs to establish a self-improving loop, thereby enhancing the capabilities of
LLMs without additional annotations. Drawing inspiration from the success of
AlphaGo, AlphaLLM addresses the unique challenges of combining MCTS with LLM
for self-improvement, including data scarcity, the vastness search spaces of
language tasks, and the subjective nature of feedback in language tasks.
AlphaLLM is comprised of prompt synthesis component, an efficient MCTS approach
tailored for language tasks, and a trio of critic models for precise feedback.
Our experimental results in mathematical reasoning tasks demonstrate that
AlphaLLM significantly enhances the performance of LLMs without additional
annotations, showing the potential for self-improvement in LLMs.

---

## 2. [Dynamic Typography: Bringing Words to Life](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.11614)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.11614](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.11614)

**Authors**: Zichen Liu, Yihao Meng, Hao Ouyang, Yue Yu, Bolin Zhao, Daniel Cohen-Or, Huamin Qu

**Published**: 2024-04-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zliucz/animate-your-word)

### Abstract

Text animation serves as an expressive medium, transforming static
communication into dynamic experiences by infusing words with motion to evoke
emotions, emphasize meanings, and construct compelling narratives. Crafting
animations that are semantically aware poses significant challenges, demanding
expertise in graphic design and animation. We present an automated text
animation scheme, termed "Dynamic Typography", which combines two challenging
tasks. It deforms letters to convey semantic meaning and infuses them with
vibrant movements based on user prompts. Our technique harnesses vector
graphics representations and an end-to-end optimization-based framework. This
framework employs neural displacement fields to convert letters into base
shapes and applies per-frame motion, encouraging coherence with the intended
textual concept. Shape preservation techniques and perceptual loss
regularization are employed to maintain legibility and structural integrity
throughout the animation process. We demonstrate the generalizability of our
approach across various text-to-video models and highlight the superiority of
our end-to-end methodology over baseline methods, which might comprise separate
tasks. Through quantitative and qualitative evaluations, we demonstrate the
effectiveness of our framework in generating coherent text animations that
faithfully interpret user prompts while maintaining readability. Our code is
available at: https://animate-your-word.github.io/demo/.

---

## 3. [MeshLRM: Large Reconstruction Model for High-Quality Mesh](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12385)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12385](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12385)

**Authors**: Xinyue Wei, Kai Zhang, Sai Bi, Hao Tan, Fujun Luan, Valentin Deschaintre, Kalyan Sunkavalli, Hao Su, Zexiang Xu

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

We propose MeshLRM, a novel LRM-based approach that can reconstruct a
high-quality mesh from merely four input images in less than one second.
Different from previous large reconstruction models (LRMs) that focus on
NeRF-based reconstruction, MeshLRM incorporates differentiable mesh extraction
and rendering within the LRM framework. This allows for end-to-end mesh
reconstruction by fine-tuning a pre-trained NeRF LRM with mesh rendering.
Moreover, we improve the LRM architecture by simplifying several complex
designs in previous LRMs. MeshLRM's NeRF initialization is sequentially trained
with low- and high-resolution images; this new LRM training strategy enables
significantly faster convergence and thereby leads to better quality with less
compute. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art mesh reconstruction from
sparse-view inputs and also allows for many downstream applications, including
text-to-3D and single-image-to-3D generation. Project page:
https://sarahweiii.github.io/meshlrm/

---

## 4. [EdgeFusion: On-Device Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.11925)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.11925](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.11925)

**Authors**: Thibault Castells, Hyoung-Kyu Song, Tairen Piao, Shinkook Choi, Bo-Kyeong Kim, Hanyoung Yim, Changgwun Lee, Jae Gon Kim, Tae-Ho Kim

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

The intensive computational burden of Stable Diffusion (SD) for text-to-image
generation poses a significant hurdle for its practical application. To tackle
this challenge, recent research focuses on methods to reduce sampling steps,
such as Latent Consistency Model (LCM), and on employing architectural
optimizations, including pruning and knowledge distillation. Diverging from
existing approaches, we uniquely start with a compact SD variant, BK-SDM. We
observe that directly applying LCM to BK-SDM with commonly used crawled
datasets yields unsatisfactory results. It leads us to develop two strategies:
(1) leveraging high-quality image-text pairs from leading generative models and
(2) designing an advanced distillation process tailored for LCM. Through our
thorough exploration of quantization, profiling, and on-device deployment, we
achieve rapid generation of photo-realistic, text-aligned images in just two
steps, with latency under one second on resource-limited edge devices.

---

## 5. [TriForce: Lossless Acceleration of Long Sequence Generation with
  Hierarchical Speculative Decoding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.11912)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.11912](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.11912)

**Authors**: Hanshi Sun, Zhuoming Chen, Xinyu Yang, Yuandong Tian, Beidi Chen

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Infini-AI-Lab/TriForce)

### Abstract

With large language models (LLMs) widely deployed in long content generation
recently, there has emerged an increasing demand for efficient long-sequence
inference support. However, key-value (KV) cache, which is stored to avoid
re-computation, has emerged as a critical bottleneck by growing linearly in
size with the sequence length. Due to the auto-regressive nature of LLMs, the
entire KV cache will be loaded for every generated token, resulting in low
utilization of computational cores and high latency. While various compression
methods for KV cache have been proposed to alleviate this issue, they suffer
from degradation in generation quality. We introduce TriForce, a hierarchical
speculative decoding system that is scalable to long sequence generation. This
approach leverages the original model weights and dynamic sparse KV cache via
retrieval as a draft model, which serves as an intermediate layer in the
hierarchy and is further speculated by a smaller model to reduce its drafting
latency. TriForce not only facilitates impressive speedups for Llama2-7B-128K,
achieving up to 2.31times on an A100 GPU but also showcases scalability in
handling even longer contexts. For the offloading setting on two RTX 4090 GPUs,
TriForce achieves 0.108s/tokenx2014only half as slow as the
auto-regressive baseline on an A100, which attains 7.78times on our
optimized offloading system. Additionally, TriForce performs 4.86times than
DeepSpeed-Zero-Inference on a single RTX 4090 GPU. TriForce's robustness is
highlighted by its consistently outstanding performance across various
temperatures. The code is available at
https://github.com/Infini-AI-Lab/TriForce.

---

## 6. [Reuse Your Rewards: Reward Model Transfer for Zero-Shot Cross-Lingual
  Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12318)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12318](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12318)

**Authors**: Zhaofeng Wu, Ananth Balashankar, Yoon Kim, Jacob Eisenstein, Ahmad Beirami

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Aligning language models (LMs) based on human-annotated preference data is a
crucial step in obtaining practical and performant LM-based systems. However,
multilingual human preference data are difficult to obtain at scale, making it
challenging to extend this framework to diverse languages. In this work, we
evaluate a simple approach for zero-shot cross-lingual alignment, where a
reward model is trained on preference data in one source language and directly
applied to other target languages. On summarization and open-ended dialog
generation, we show that this method is consistently successful under
comprehensive evaluation settings, including human evaluation: cross-lingually
aligned models are preferred by humans over unaligned models on up to >70% of
evaluation instances. We moreover find that a different-language reward model
sometimes yields better aligned models than a same-language reward model. We
also identify best practices when there is no language-specific data for even
supervised finetuning, another component in alignment.

---

## 7. [MoA: Mixture-of-Attention for Subject-Context Disentanglement in
  Personalized Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.11565)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.11565](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.11565)

**Authors**: Kuan-Chieh, Wang, Daniil Ostashev, Yuwei Fang, Sergey Tulyakov, Kfir Aberman

**Published**: 2024-04-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

We introduce a new architecture for personalization of text-to-image
diffusion models, coined Mixture-of-Attention (MoA). Inspired by the
Mixture-of-Experts mechanism utilized in large language models (LLMs), MoA
distributes the generation workload between two attention pathways: a
personalized branch and a non-personalized prior branch. MoA is designed to
retain the original model's prior by fixing its attention layers in the prior
branch, while minimally intervening in the generation process with the
personalized branch that learns to embed subjects in the layout and context
generated by the prior branch. A novel routing mechanism manages the
distribution of pixels in each layer across these branches to optimize the
blend of personalized and generic content creation. Once trained, MoA
facilitates the creation of high-quality, personalized images featuring
multiple subjects with compositions and interactions as diverse as those
generated by the original model. Crucially, MoA enhances the distinction
between the model's pre-existing capability and the newly augmented
personalized intervention, thereby offering a more disentangled subject-context
control that was previously unattainable. Project page:
https://snap-research.github.io/mixture-of-attention

---

## 8. [Introducing v0.5 of the AI Safety Benchmark from MLCommons](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12241)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12241](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12241)

**Authors**: Bertie Vidgen, Adarsh Agrawal, Ahmed M. Ahmed, Victor Akinwande, Namir Al-Nuaimi, Najla Alfaraj, Elie Alhajjar, Lora Aroyo, Trupti Bavalatti, Borhane Blili-Hamelin, Kurt Bollacker, Rishi Bomassani, Marisa Ferrara Boston, Siméon Campos, Kal Chakra, Canyu Chen, Cody Coleman, Zacharie Delpierre Coudert, Leon Derczynski, Debojyoti Dutta, Ian Eisenberg, James Ezick, Heather Frase, Brian Fuller, Ram Gandikota, Agasthya Gangavarapu, Ananya Gangavarapu, James Gealy, Rajat Ghosh, James Goel, Usman Gohar, Sujata Goswami, Scott A. Hale, Wiebke Hutiri, Joseph Marvin Imperial, Surgan Jandial, Nick Judd, Felix Juefei-Xu, Foutse Khomh, Bhavya Kailkhura, Hannah Rose Kirk, Kevin Klyman, Chris Knotz, Michael Kuchnik, Shachi H. Kumar, Chris Lengerich, Bo Li, Zeyi Liao, Eileen Peters Long, Victor Lu, Yifan Mai, Priyanka Mary Mammen, Kelvin Manyeki, Sean McGregor, Virendra Mehta, Shafee Mohammed, Emanuel Moss, Lama Nachman, Dinesh Jinenhally Naganna, Amin Nikanjam, Besmira Nushi, Luis Oala, Iftach Orr, Alicia Parrish, Cigdem Patlak, William Pietri, Forough Poursabzi-Sangdeh, Eleonora Presani, Fabrizio Puletti, Paul Röttger, Saurav Sahay, Tim Santos, Nino Scherrer, Alice Schoenauer Sebag, Patrick Schramowski, Abolfazl Shahbazi, Vin Sharma, Xudong Shen, Vamsi Sistla, Leonard Tang, Davide Testuggine, Vithursan Thangarasa, Elizabeth Anne Watkins, Rebecca Weiss, Chris Welty, Tyler Wilbers, Adina Williams, Carole-Jean Wu, Poonam Yadav, Xianjun Yang, Yi Zeng, Wenhui Zhang, Fedor Zhdanov, Jiacheng Zhu, Percy Liang, Peter Mattson, Joaquin Vanschoren

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mlcommons/modelbench)

### Abstract

This paper introduces v0.5 of the AI Safety Benchmark, which has been created
by the MLCommons AI Safety Working Group. The AI Safety Benchmark has been
designed to assess the safety risks of AI systems that use chat-tuned language
models. We introduce a principled approach to specifying and constructing the
benchmark, which for v0.5 covers only a single use case (an adult chatting to a
general-purpose assistant in English), and a limited set of personas (i.e.,
typical users, malicious users, and vulnerable users). We created a new
taxonomy of 13 hazard categories, of which 7 have tests in the v0.5 benchmark.
We plan to release version 1.0 of the AI Safety Benchmark by the end of 2024.
The v1.0 benchmark will provide meaningful insights into the safety of AI
systems. However, the v0.5 benchmark should not be used to assess the safety of
AI systems. We have sought to fully document the limitations, flaws, and
challenges of v0.5. This release of v0.5 of the AI Safety Benchmark includes
(1) a principled approach to specifying and constructing the benchmark, which
comprises use cases, types of systems under test (SUTs), language and context,
personas, tests, and test items; (2) a taxonomy of 13 hazard categories with
definitions and subcategories; (3) tests for seven of the hazard categories,
each comprising a unique set of test items, i.e., prompts. There are 43,090
test items in total, which we created with templates; (4) a grading system for
AI systems against the benchmark; (5) an openly available platform, and
downloadable tool, called ModelBench that can be used to evaluate the safety of
AI systems on the benchmark; (6) an example evaluation report which benchmarks
the performance of over a dozen openly available chat-tuned language models;
(7) a test specification for the benchmark.

---
