# Daily Papers - 2024-04-05

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-04-05)

Total papers: 10

---

## 1. [ReFT: Representation Finetuning for Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.03592)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.03592](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03592)

**Authors**: Zhengxuan Wu, Aryaman Arora, Zheng Wang, Atticus Geiger, Dan Jurafsky, Christopher D. Manning, Christopher Potts

**Published**: 2024-04-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 101

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/stanfordnlp/pyreft)

### Abstract

Parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods seek to adapt large models via
updates to a small number of weights. However, much prior interpretability work
has shown that representations encode rich semantic information, suggesting
that editing representations might be a more powerful alternative. Here, we
pursue this hypothesis by developing a family of Representation
Finetuning (ReFT) methods. ReFT methods operate on a frozen base model and
learn task-specific interventions on hidden representations. We define a strong
instance of the ReFT family, Low-rank Linear Subspace ReFT (LoReFT). LoReFT is
a drop-in replacement for existing PEFTs and learns interventions that are
10x-50x more parameter-efficient than prior state-of-the-art PEFTs. We showcase
LoReFT on eight commonsense reasoning tasks, four arithmetic reasoning tasks,
Alpaca-Eval v1.0, and GLUE. In all these evaluations, LoReFT delivers the best
balance of efficiency and performance, and almost always outperforms
state-of-the-art PEFTs. We release a generic ReFT training library publicly at
https://github.com/stanfordnlp/pyreft.

---

## 2. [CoMat: Aligning Text-to-Image Diffusion Model with Image-to-Text Concept
  Matching](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.03653)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.03653](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03653)

**Authors**: Dongzhi Jiang, Guanglu Song, Xiaoshi Wu, Renrui Zhang, Dazhong Shen, Zhuofan Zong, Yu Liu, Hongsheng Li

**Published**: 2024-04-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 35

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/caraj7/comat)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have demonstrated great success in the field of
text-to-image generation. However, alleviating the misalignment between the
text prompts and images is still challenging. The root reason behind the
misalignment has not been extensively investigated. We observe that the
misalignment is caused by inadequate token attention activation. We further
attribute this phenomenon to the diffusion model's insufficient condition
utilization, which is caused by its training paradigm. To address the issue, we
propose CoMat, an end-to-end diffusion model fine-tuning strategy with an
image-to-text concept matching mechanism. We leverage an image captioning model
to measure image-to-text alignment and guide the diffusion model to revisit
ignored tokens. A novel attribute concentration module is also proposed to
address the attribute binding problem. Without any image or human preference
data, we use only 20K text prompts to fine-tune SDXL to obtain CoMat-SDXL.
Extensive experiments show that CoMat-SDXL significantly outperforms the
baseline model SDXL in two text-to-image alignment benchmarks and achieves
start-of-the-art performance.

---

## 3. [AutoWebGLM: Bootstrap And Reinforce A Large Language Model-based Web
  Navigating Agent](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.03648)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.03648](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03648)

**Authors**: Hanyu Lai, Xiao Liu, Iat Long Iong, Shuntian Yao, Yuxuan Chen, Pengbo Shen, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang, Xiaohan Zhang, Yuxiao Dong, Jie Tang

**Published**: 2024-04-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thudm/autowebglm)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have fueled many intelligent agent tasks, such
as web navigation -- but most existing agents perform far from satisfying in
real-world webpages due to three factors: (1) the versatility of actions on
webpages, (2) HTML text exceeding model processing capacity, and (3) the
complexity of decision-making due to the open-domain nature of web. In light of
the challenge, we develop AutoWebGLM, a GPT-4-outperforming automated web
navigation agent built upon ChatGLM3-6B. Inspired by human browsing patterns,
we design an HTML simplification algorithm to represent webpages, preserving
vital information succinctly. We employ a hybrid human-AI method to build web
browsing data for curriculum training. Then, we bootstrap the model by
reinforcement learning and rejection sampling to further facilitate webpage
comprehension, browser operations, and efficient task decomposition by itself.
For testing, we establish a bilingual benchmark -- AutoWebBench -- for
real-world web browsing tasks. We evaluate AutoWebGLM across diverse web
navigation benchmarks, revealing its improvements but also underlying
challenges to tackle real environments. Related code, model, and data will be
released at https://github.com/THUDM/AutoWebGLM.

---

## 4. [MiniGPT4-Video: Advancing Multimodal LLMs for Video Understanding with
  Interleaved Visual-Textual Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.03413)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.03413](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03413)

**Authors**: Kirolos Ataallah, Xiaoqian Shen, Eslam Abdelrahman, Essam Sleiman, Deyao Zhu, Jian Ding, Mohamed Elhoseiny

**Published**: 2024-04-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

This paper introduces MiniGPT4-Video, a multimodal Large Language Model (LLM)
designed specifically for video understanding. The model is capable of
processing both temporal visual and textual data, making it adept at
understanding the complexities of videos. Building upon the success of
MiniGPT-v2, which excelled in translating visual features into the LLM space
for single images and achieved impressive results on various image-text
benchmarks, this paper extends the model's capabilities to process a sequence
of frames, enabling it to comprehend videos. MiniGPT4-video does not only
consider visual content but also incorporates textual conversations, allowing
the model to effectively answer queries involving both visual and text
components. The proposed model outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods,
registering gains of 4.22%, 1.13%, 20.82%, and 13.1% on the MSVD, MSRVTT, TGIF,
and TVQA benchmarks respectively. Our models and code have been made publicly
available here https://vision-cair.github.io/MiniGPT4-video/

---

## 5. [LVLM-Intrepret: An Interpretability Tool for Large Vision-Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.03118)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.03118](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03118)

**Authors**: Gabriela Ben Melech Stan, Raanan Yehezkel Rohekar, Yaniv Gurwicz, Matthew Lyle Olson, Anahita Bhiwandiwalla, Estelle Aflalo, Chenfei Wu, Nan Duan, Shao-Yen Tseng, Vasudev Lal

**Published**: 2024-04-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

In the rapidly evolving landscape of artificial intelligence, multi-modal
large language models are emerging as a significant area of interest. These
models, which combine various forms of data input, are becoming increasingly
popular. However, understanding their internal mechanisms remains a complex
task. Numerous advancements have been made in the field of explainability tools
and mechanisms, yet there is still much to explore. In this work, we present a
novel interactive application aimed towards understanding the internal
mechanisms of large vision-language models. Our interface is designed to
enhance the interpretability of the image patches, which are instrumental in
generating an answer, and assess the efficacy of the language model in
grounding its output in the image. With our application, a user can
systematically investigate the model and uncover system limitations, paving the
way for enhancements in system capabilities. Finally, we present a case study
of how our application can aid in understanding failure mechanisms in a popular
large multi-modal model: LLaVA.

---

## 6. [Training LLMs over Neurally Compressed Text](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.03626)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.03626](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03626)

**Authors**: Brian Lester, Jaehoon Lee, Alex Alemi, Jeffrey Pennington, Adam Roberts, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Noah Constant

**Published**: 2024-04-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

In this paper, we explore the idea of training large language models (LLMs)
over highly compressed text. While standard subword tokenizers compress text by
a small factor, neural text compressors can achieve much higher rates of
compression. If it were possible to train LLMs directly over neurally
compressed text, this would confer advantages in training and serving
efficiency, as well as easier handling of long text spans. The main obstacle to
this goal is that strong compression tends to produce opaque outputs that are
not well-suited for learning. In particular, we find that text na\"ively
compressed via Arithmetic Coding is not readily learnable by LLMs. To overcome
this, we propose Equal-Info Windows, a novel compression technique whereby text
is segmented into blocks that each compress to the same bit length. Using this
method, we demonstrate effective learning over neurally compressed text that
improves with scale, and outperforms byte-level baselines by a wide margin on
perplexity and inference speed benchmarks. While our method delivers worse
perplexity than subword tokenizers for models trained with the same parameter
count, it has the benefit of shorter sequence lengths. Shorter sequence lengths
require fewer autoregressive generation steps, and reduce latency. Finally, we
provide extensive analysis of the properties that contribute to learnability,
and offer concrete suggestions for how to further improve the performance of
high-compression tokenizers.

---

## 7. [CodeEditorBench: Evaluating Code Editing Capability of Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.03543)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.03543](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03543)

**Authors**: Jiawei Guo, Ziming Li, Xueling Liu, Kaijing Ma, Tianyu Zheng, Zhouliang Yu, Ding Pan, Yizhi LI, Ruibo Liu, Yue Wang, Shuyue Guo, Xingwei Qu, Xiang Yue, Ge Zhang, Wenhu Chen, Jie Fu

**Published**: 2024-04-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/CodeEditorBench/CodeEditorBench)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) for code are rapidly evolving, with code editing
emerging as a critical capability. We introduce CodeEditorBench, an evaluation
framework designed to rigorously assess the performance of LLMs in code editing
tasks, including debugging, translating, polishing, and requirement switching.
Unlike existing benchmarks focusing solely on code generation, CodeEditorBench
emphasizes real-world scenarios and practical aspects of software development.
We curate diverse coding challenges and scenarios from five sources, covering
various programming languages, complexity levels, and editing tasks. Evaluation
of 19 LLMs reveals that closed-source models (particularly Gemini-Ultra and
GPT-4), outperform open-source models in CodeEditorBench, highlighting
differences in model performance based on problem types and prompt
sensitivities. CodeEditorBench aims to catalyze advancements in LLMs by
providing a robust platform for assessing code editing capabilities. We will
release all prompts and datasets to enable the community to expand the dataset
and benchmark emerging LLMs. By introducing CodeEditorBench, we contribute to
the advancement of LLMs in code editing and provide a valuable resource for
researchers and practitioners.

---

## 8. [PointInfinity: Resolution-Invariant Point Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.03566)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.03566](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03566)

**Authors**: Zixuan Huang, Justin Johnson, Shoubhik Debnath, James M. Rehg, Chao-Yuan Wu

**Published**: 2024-04-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

We present PointInfinity, an efficient family of point cloud diffusion
models. Our core idea is to use a transformer-based architecture with a
fixed-size, resolution-invariant latent representation. This enables efficient
training with low-resolution point clouds, while allowing high-resolution point
clouds to be generated during inference. More importantly, we show that scaling
the test-time resolution beyond the training resolution improves the fidelity
of generated point clouds and surfaces. We analyze this phenomenon and draw a
link to classifier-free guidance commonly used in diffusion models,
demonstrating that both allow trading off fidelity and variability during
inference. Experiments on CO3D show that PointInfinity can efficiently generate
high-resolution point clouds (up to 131k points, 31 times more than Point-E)
with state-of-the-art quality.

---

## 9. [Red Teaming GPT-4V: Are GPT-4V Safe Against Uni/Multi-Modal Jailbreak
  Attacks?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.03411)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.03411](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03411)

**Authors**: Shuo Chen, Zhen Han, Bailan He, Zifeng Ding, Wenqian Yu, Philip Torr, Volker Tresp, Jindong Gu

**Published**: 2024-04-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/chenxshuo/redteaminggpt4v)

### Abstract

Various jailbreak attacks have been proposed to red-team Large Language
Models (LLMs) and revealed the vulnerable safeguards of LLMs. Besides, some
methods are not limited to the textual modality and extend the jailbreak attack
to Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) by perturbing the visual input.
However, the absence of a universal evaluation benchmark complicates the
performance reproduction and fair comparison. Besides, there is a lack of
comprehensive evaluation of closed-source state-of-the-art (SOTA) models,
especially MLLMs, such as GPT-4V. To address these issues, this work first
builds a comprehensive jailbreak evaluation dataset with 1445 harmful questions
covering 11 different safety policies. Based on this dataset, extensive
red-teaming experiments are conducted on 11 different LLMs and MLLMs, including
both SOTA proprietary models and open-source models. We then conduct a deep
analysis of the evaluated results and find that (1) GPT4 and GPT-4V demonstrate
better robustness against jailbreak attacks compared to open-source LLMs and
MLLMs. (2) Llama2 and Qwen-VL-Chat are more robust compared to other
open-source models. (3) The transferability of visual jailbreak methods is
relatively limited compared to textual jailbreak methods. The dataset and code
can be found here
https://anonymous.4open.science/r/red_teaming_gpt4-C1CE/README.md .

---

## 10. [RALL-E: Robust Codec Language Modeling with Chain-of-Thought Prompting
  for Text-to-Speech Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.03204)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.03204](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03204)

**Authors**: Detai Xin, Xu Tan, Kai Shen, Zeqian Ju, Dongchao Yang, Yuancheng Wang, Shinnosuke Takamichi, Hiroshi Saruwatari, Shujie Liu, Jinyu Li, Sheng Zhao

**Published**: 2024-04-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

We present RALL-E, a robust language modeling method for text-to-speech (TTS)
synthesis. While previous work based on large language models (LLMs) shows
impressive performance on zero-shot TTS, such methods often suffer from poor
robustness, such as unstable prosody (weird pitch and rhythm/duration) and a
high word error rate (WER), due to the autoregressive prediction style of
language models. The core idea behind RALL-E is chain-of-thought (CoT)
prompting, which decomposes the task into simpler steps to enhance the
robustness of LLM-based TTS. To accomplish this idea, RALL-E first predicts
prosody features (pitch and duration) of the input text and uses them as
intermediate conditions to predict speech tokens in a CoT style. Second, RALL-E
utilizes the predicted duration prompt to guide the computing of self-attention
weights in Transformer to enforce the model to focus on the corresponding
phonemes and prosody features when predicting speech tokens. Results of
comprehensive objective and subjective evaluations demonstrate that, compared
to a powerful baseline method VALL-E, RALL-E significantly improves the WER of
zero-shot TTS from 6.3% (without reranking) and 2.1% (with reranking) to
2.8% and 1.0%, respectively. Furthermore, we demonstrate that RALL-E
correctly synthesizes sentences that are hard for VALL-E and reduces the error
rate from 68% to 4%.

---
