# Daily Papers - 2024-04-18

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-04-18)

Total papers: 4

---

## 1. [Reka Core, Flash, and Edge: A Series of Powerful Multimodal Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12387)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12387](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12387)

**Authors**: Aitor Ormazabal, Che Zheng, Cyprien de Masson d'Autume, Dani Yogatama, Deyu Fu, Donovan Ong, Eric Chen, Eugenie Lamprecht, Hai Pham, Isaac Ong, Kaloyan Aleksiev, Lei Li, Matthew Henderson, Max Bain, Mikel Artetxe, Nishant Relan, Piotr Padlewski, Qi Liu, Ren Chen, Samuel Phua, Yazheng Yang, Yi Tay, Yuqi Wang, Zhongkai Zhu, Zhihui Xie

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 40

### Abstract

We introduce Reka Core, Flash, and Edge, a series of powerful multimodal
language models trained from scratch by Reka. Reka models are able to process
and reason with text, images, video, and audio inputs. This technical report
discusses details of training some of these models and provides comprehensive
evaluation results. We show that Reka Edge and Reka Flash are not only
state-of-the-art but also outperform many much larger models, delivering
outsized values for their respective compute class. Meanwhile, our most capable
and largest model, Reka Core, approaches the best frontier models on both
automatic evaluations and blind human evaluations. On image question answering
benchmarks (e.g. MMMU, VQAv2), Core performs competitively to GPT4-V.
Meanwhile, on multimodal chat, Core ranks as the second most preferred model
under a blind third-party human evaluation setup, outperforming other models
such as Claude 3 Opus. On text benchmarks, Core not only performs competitively
to other frontier models on a set of well-established benchmarks (e.g. MMLU,
GSM8K) but also outperforms GPT4-0613 on human evaluation. On video question
answering (Perception-Test), Core outperforms Gemini Ultra. Models are shipped
in production at http://chat.reka.ai . A showcase of non cherry picked
qualitative examples can also be found at http://showcase.reka.ai .

---

## 2. [BLINK: Multimodal Large Language Models Can See but Not Perceive](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12390)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12390](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12390)

**Authors**: Xingyu Fu, Yushi Hu, Bangzheng Li, Yu Feng, Haoyu Wang, Xudong Lin, Dan Roth, Noah A. Smith, Wei-Chiu Ma, Ranjay Krishna

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

We introduce Blink, a new benchmark for multimodal language models (LLMs)
that focuses on core visual perception abilities not found in other
evaluations. Most of the Blink tasks can be solved by humans "within a blink"
(e.g., relative depth estimation, visual correspondence, forensics detection,
and multi-view reasoning). However, we find these perception-demanding tasks
cast significant challenges for current multimodal LLMs because they resist
mediation through natural language. Blink reformats 14 classic computer vision
tasks into 3,807 multiple-choice questions, paired with single or multiple
images and visual prompting. While humans get 95.70% accuracy on average, Blink
is surprisingly challenging for existing multimodal LLMs: even the
best-performing GPT-4V and Gemini achieve accuracies of 51.26% and 45.72%, only
13.17% and 7.63% higher than random guessing, indicating that such perception
abilities have not "emerged" yet in recent multimodal LLMs. Our analysis also
highlights that specialist CV models could solve these problems much better,
suggesting potential pathways for future improvements. We believe Blink will
stimulate the community to help multimodal LLMs catch up with human-level
visual perception.

---

## 3. [AniClipart: Clipart Animation with Text-to-Video Priors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12347)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12347](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12347)

**Authors**: Ronghuan Wu, Wanchao Su, Kede Ma, Jing Liao

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Clipart, a pre-made graphic art form, offers a convenient and efficient way
of illustrating visual content. Traditional workflows to convert static clipart
images into motion sequences are laborious and time-consuming, involving
numerous intricate steps like rigging, key animation and in-betweening. Recent
advancements in text-to-video generation hold great potential in resolving this
problem. Nevertheless, direct application of text-to-video generation models
often struggles to retain the visual identity of clipart images or generate
cartoon-style motions, resulting in unsatisfactory animation outcomes. In this
paper, we introduce AniClipart, a system that transforms static clipart images
into high-quality motion sequences guided by text-to-video priors. To generate
cartoon-style and smooth motion, we first define B\'{e}zier curves over
keypoints of the clipart image as a form of motion regularization. We then
align the motion trajectories of the keypoints with the provided text prompt by
optimizing the Video Score Distillation Sampling (VSDS) loss, which encodes
adequate knowledge of natural motion within a pretrained text-to-video
diffusion model. With a differentiable As-Rigid-As-Possible shape deformation
algorithm, our method can be end-to-end optimized while maintaining deformation
rigidity. Experimental results show that the proposed AniClipart consistently
outperforms existing image-to-video generation models, in terms of text-video
alignment, visual identity preservation, and motion consistency. Furthermore,
we showcase the versatility of AniClipart by adapting it to generate a broader
array of animation formats, such as layered animation, which allows topological
changes.

---

## 4. [OpenBezoar: Small, Cost-Effective and Open Models Trained on Mixes of
  Instruction Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.12195)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.12195](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12195)

**Authors**: Chandeepa Dissanayake, Lahiru Lowe, Sachith Gunasekara, Yasiru Ratnayake

**Published**: 2024-04-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Instruction fine-tuning pretrained LLMs for diverse downstream tasks has
demonstrated remarkable success and has captured the interest of both academics
and practitioners. To ensure such fine-tuned LLMs align with human preferences,
techniques such as RLHF and DPO have emerged. At the same time, there is
increasing interest in smaller parameter counts for models. In this work, using
OpenLLaMA 3Bv2 as a base model, we describe the recipe used to fine-tune the
OpenBezoar family of models. In this recipe: We first generate synthetic
instruction fine-tuning data using an open and commercially non-restrictive
instruction fine-tuned variant of the Falcon-40B model under three schemes
based on: LaMini-LM, WizardLM/Evol-Instruct (with databricks-dolly-15k as a
seed dataset) and Orca (with the Flan Collection as a seed dataset), then
filter these generations using GPT-4 as a human proxy. We then perform
cost-effective QLoRA-based supervised fine-tuning sequentially with each
scheme. The resulting checkpoint is further fine-tuned with a subset of the
HH-RLHF dataset to minimize distribution shift prior to using the DPO loss to
obtain the final checkpoint. Evaluation is done with the LM Eval Harness
tasks/metrics as well as on MT-Bench using the "LLM-as-a-judge" framework with
Claude 2.1, with the finding that the final checkpoint,
"OpenBezoar-HH-RLHF-DPO", demonstrates superior performance over many models at
the 3B parameter scale, even outperforming the top model in one of the
categories on the Huggingface Open LLM Leaderboard. We release
"OpenBezoar-SFT", "OpenBezoar-HH-RLHF-SFT", "OpenBezoar-HH-RLHF-DPO"
checkpoints, alongside our generated datasets on HuggingFace at
https://huggingface.co/collections/SurgeGlobal/open-bezoar-6620a24923e12127e9e2b9cc
and our codebase at
https://bitbucket.org/paladinanalytics/workspace/projects/OP.

---
