# Daily Papers - 2024-04-02

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-04-02)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [Aurora-M: The First Open Source Multilingual Language Model Red-teamed
  according to the U.S. Executive Order](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.00399)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.00399](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00399)

**Authors**: Taishi Nakamura, Mayank Mishra, Simone Tedeschi, Jason T Stillerman, Felix Friedrich, Prateek Yadav, Tanmay Laud, Vu Minh Chien, Terry Yue Zhuo, Diganta Misra, Ben Bogin, Xuan-Son Vu, Marzena Karpinska, Arnav Varma Dantuluri, Wojciech Kusa, Tommaso Furlanello, Rio Yokota, Niklas Muennighoff, Suhas Pai, Tosin Adewumi, Veronika Laippala, Xiaozhe Yao, Adalberto Junior, Alpay Ariyak, Aleksandr Drozd, Jordan Clive, Kshitij Gupta, Liangyu Chen, Qi Sun, Ken Tsui, Noah Persaud, Nour Fahmy, Tianlong Chen, Mohit Bansal, Nicolo Monti, Tai Dang, Ziyang Luo, Tien-Tung Bui, Roberto Navigli, Virendra Mehta, Matthew Blumberg, Victor May, Huu Nguyen, Sampo Pyysalo

**Published**: 2024-03-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 42

### Abstract

Pretrained language models underpin several AI applications, but their high
computational cost for training limits accessibility. Initiatives such as BLOOM
and StarCoder aim to democratize access to pretrained models for collaborative
community development. However, such existing models face challenges: limited
multilingual capabilities, continual pretraining causing catastrophic
forgetting, whereas pretraining from scratch is computationally expensive, and
compliance with AI safety and development laws. This paper presents Aurora-M, a
15B parameter multilingual open-source model trained on English, Finnish,
Hindi, Japanese, Vietnamese, and code. Continually pretrained from
StarCoderPlus on 435 billion additional tokens, Aurora-M surpasses 2 trillion
tokens in total training token count. It is the first open-source multilingual
model fine-tuned on human-reviewed safety instructions, thus aligning its
development not only with conventional red-teaming considerations, but also
with the specific concerns articulated in the Biden-Harris Executive Order on
the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial
Intelligence. Aurora-M is rigorously evaluated across various tasks and
languages, demonstrating robustness against catastrophic forgetting and
outperforming alternatives in multilingual settings, particularly in safety
evaluations. To promote responsible open-source LLM development, Aurora-M and
its variants are released at
https://huggingface.co/collections/aurora-m/aurora-m-models-65fdfdff62471e09812f5407 .

---

## 2. [Getting it Right: Improving Spatial Consistency in Text-to-Image Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.01197)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.01197](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01197)

**Authors**: Agneet Chatterjee, Gabriela Ben Melech Stan, Estelle Aflalo, Sayak Paul, Dhruba Ghosh, Tejas Gokhale, Ludwig Schmidt, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Vasudev Lal, Chitta Baral, Yezhou Yang

**Published**: 2024-04-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SPRIGHT-T2I/SPRIGHT)

### Abstract

One of the key shortcomings in current text-to-image (T2I) models is their
inability to consistently generate images which faithfully follow the spatial
relationships specified in the text prompt. In this paper, we offer a
comprehensive investigation of this limitation, while also developing datasets
and methods that achieve state-of-the-art performance. First, we find that
current vision-language datasets do not represent spatial relationships well
enough; to alleviate this bottleneck, we create SPRIGHT, the first
spatially-focused, large scale dataset, by re-captioning 6 million images from
4 widely used vision datasets. Through a 3-fold evaluation and analysis
pipeline, we find that SPRIGHT largely improves upon existing datasets in
capturing spatial relationships. To demonstrate its efficacy, we leverage only
~0.25% of SPRIGHT and achieve a 22% improvement in generating spatially
accurate images while also improving the FID and CMMD scores. Secondly, we find
that training on images containing a large number of objects results in
substantial improvements in spatial consistency. Notably, we attain
state-of-the-art on T2I-CompBench with a spatial score of 0.2133, by
fine-tuning on <500 images. Finally, through a set of controlled experiments
and ablations, we document multiple findings that we believe will enhance the
understanding of factors that affect spatial consistency in text-to-image
models. We publicly release our dataset and model to foster further research in
this area.

---

## 3. [FlexiDreamer: Single Image-to-3D Generation with FlexiCubes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.00987)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.00987](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00987)

**Authors**: Ruowen Zhao, Zhengyi Wang, Yikai Wang, Zihan Zhou, Jun Zhu

**Published**: 2024-04-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zhaorw02/FlexiDreamer)

### Abstract

3D content generation from text prompts or single images has made remarkable
progress in quality and speed recently. One of its dominant paradigms involves
generating consistent multi-view images followed by a sparse-view
reconstruction. However, due to the challenge of directly deforming the mesh
representation to approach the target topology, most methodologies learn an
implicit representation (such as NeRF) during the sparse-view reconstruction
and acquire the target mesh by a post-processing extraction. Although the
implicit representation can effectively model rich 3D information, its training
typically entails a long convergence time. In addition, the post-extraction
operation from the implicit field also leads to undesirable visual artifacts.
In this paper, we propose FlexiDreamer, a novel single image-to-3d generation
framework that reconstructs the target mesh in an end-to-end manner. By
leveraging a flexible gradient-based extraction known as FlexiCubes, our method
circumvents the defects brought by the post-processing and facilitates a direct
acquisition of the target mesh. Furthermore, we incorporate a multi-resolution
hash grid encoding scheme that progressively activates the encoding levels into
the implicit field in FlexiCubes to help capture geometric details for per-step
optimization. Notably, FlexiDreamer recovers a dense 3D structure from a
single-view image in approximately 1 minute on a single NVIDIA A100 GPU,
outperforming previous methodologies by a large margin.

---

## 4. [MaGRITTe: Manipulative and Generative 3D Realization from Image, Topview
  and Text](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.00345)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.00345](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00345)

**Authors**: Takayuki Hara, Tatsuya Harada

**Published**: 2024-03-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

The generation of 3D scenes from user-specified conditions offers a promising
avenue for alleviating the production burden in 3D applications. Previous
studies required significant effort to realize the desired scene, owing to
limited control conditions. We propose a method for controlling and generating
3D scenes under multimodal conditions using partial images, layout information
represented in the top view, and text prompts. Combining these conditions to
generate a 3D scene involves the following significant difficulties: (1) the
creation of large datasets, (2) reflection on the interaction of multimodal
conditions, and (3) domain dependence of the layout conditions. We decompose
the process of 3D scene generation into 2D image generation from the given
conditions and 3D scene generation from 2D images. 2D image generation is
achieved by fine-tuning a pretrained text-to-image model with a small
artificial dataset of partial images and layouts, and 3D scene generation is
achieved by layout-conditioned depth estimation and neural radiance fields
(NeRF), thereby avoiding the creation of large datasets. The use of a common
representation of spatial information using 360-degree images allows for the
consideration of multimodal condition interactions and reduces the domain
dependence of the layout control. The experimental results qualitatively and
quantitatively demonstrated that the proposed method can generate 3D scenes in
diverse domains, from indoor to outdoor, according to multimodal conditions.

---

## 5. [CosmicMan: A Text-to-Image Foundation Model for Humans](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.01294)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.01294](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01294)

**Authors**: Shikai Li, Jianglin Fu, Kaiyuan Liu, Wentao Wang, Kwan-Yee Lin, Wayne Wu

**Published**: 2024-04-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

We present CosmicMan, a text-to-image foundation model specialized for
generating high-fidelity human images. Unlike current general-purpose
foundation models that are stuck in the dilemma of inferior quality and
text-image misalignment for humans, CosmicMan enables generating
photo-realistic human images with meticulous appearance, reasonable structure,
and precise text-image alignment with detailed dense descriptions. At the heart
of CosmicMan's success are the new reflections and perspectives on data and
models: (1) We found that data quality and a scalable data production flow are
essential for the final results from trained models. Hence, we propose a new
data production paradigm, Annotate Anyone, which serves as a perpetual data
flywheel to produce high-quality data with accurate yet cost-effective
annotations over time. Based on this, we constructed a large-scale dataset,
CosmicMan-HQ 1.0, with 6 Million high-quality real-world human images in a mean
resolution of 1488x1255, and attached with precise text annotations deriving
from 115 Million attributes in diverse granularities. (2) We argue that a
text-to-image foundation model specialized for humans must be pragmatic -- easy
to integrate into down-streaming tasks while effective in producing
high-quality human images. Hence, we propose to model the relationship between
dense text descriptions and image pixels in a decomposed manner, and present
Decomposed-Attention-Refocusing (Daring) training framework. It seamlessly
decomposes the cross-attention features in existing text-to-image diffusion
model, and enforces attention refocusing without adding extra modules. Through
Daring, we show that explicitly discretizing continuous text space into several
basic groups that align with human body structure is the key to tackling the
misalignment problem in a breeze.

---

## 6. [Measuring Style Similarity in Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.01292)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.01292](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01292)

**Authors**: Gowthami Somepalli, Anubhav Gupta, Kamal Gupta, Shramay Palta, Micah Goldblum, Jonas Geiping, Abhinav Shrivastava, Tom Goldstein

**Published**: 2024-04-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/learn2phoenix/csd)

### Abstract

Generative models are now widely used by graphic designers and artists. Prior
works have shown that these models remember and often replicate content from
their training data during generation. Hence as their proliferation increases,
it has become important to perform a database search to determine whether the
properties of the image are attributable to specific training data, every time
before a generated image is used for professional purposes. Existing tools for
this purpose focus on retrieving images of similar semantic content. Meanwhile,
many artists are concerned with style replication in text-to-image models. We
present a framework for understanding and extracting style descriptors from
images. Our framework comprises a new dataset curated using the insight that
style is a subjective property of an image that captures complex yet meaningful
interactions of factors including but not limited to colors, textures, shapes,
etc. We also propose a method to extract style descriptors that can be used to
attribute style of a generated image to the images used in the training dataset
of a text-to-image model. We showcase promising results in various style
retrieval tasks. We also quantitatively and qualitatively analyze style
attribution and matching in the Stable Diffusion model. Code and artifacts are
available at https://github.com/learn2phoenix/CSD.

---

## 7. [Streaming Dense Video Captioning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.01297)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.01297](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01297)

**Authors**: Xingyi Zhou, Anurag Arnab, Shyamal Buch, Shen Yan, Austin Myers, Xuehan Xiong, Arsha Nagrani, Cordelia Schmid

**Published**: 2024-04-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

An ideal model for dense video captioning -- predicting captions localized
temporally in a video -- should be able to handle long input videos, predict
rich, detailed textual descriptions, and be able to produce outputs before
processing the entire video. Current state-of-the-art models, however, process
a fixed number of downsampled frames, and make a single full prediction after
seeing the whole video. We propose a streaming dense video captioning model
that consists of two novel components: First, we propose a new memory module,
based on clustering incoming tokens, which can handle arbitrarily long videos
as the memory is of a fixed size. Second, we develop a streaming decoding
algorithm that enables our model to make predictions before the entire video
has been processed. Our model achieves this streaming ability, and
significantly improves the state-of-the-art on three dense video captioning
benchmarks: ActivityNet, YouCook2 and ViTT. Our code is released at
https://github.com/google-research/scenic.

---

## 8. [Condition-Aware Neural Network for Controlled Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.01143)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.01143](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01143)

**Authors**: Han Cai, Muyang Li, Zhuoyang Zhang, Qinsheng Zhang, Ming-Yu Liu, Song Han

**Published**: 2024-04-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

We present Condition-Aware Neural Network (CAN), a new method for adding
control to image generative models. In parallel to prior conditional control
methods, CAN controls the image generation process by dynamically manipulating
the weight of the neural network. This is achieved by introducing a
condition-aware weight generation module that generates conditional weight for
convolution/linear layers based on the input condition. We test CAN on
class-conditional image generation on ImageNet and text-to-image generation on
COCO. CAN consistently delivers significant improvements for diffusion
transformer models, including DiT and UViT. In particular, CAN combined with
EfficientViT (CaT) achieves 2.78 FID on ImageNet 512x512, surpassing DiT-XL/2
while requiring 52x fewer MACs per sampling step.

---

## 9. [Direct Preference Optimization of Video Large Multimodal Models from
  Language Model Reward](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.01258)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.01258](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01258)

**Authors**: Ruohong Zhang, Liangke Gui, Zhiqing Sun, Yihao Feng, Keyang Xu, Yuanhan Zhang, Di Fu, Chunyuan Li, Alexander Hauptmann, Yonatan Bisk, Yiming Yang

**Published**: 2024-04-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/riflezhang/llava-hound-dpo)

### Abstract

Preference modeling techniques, such as direct preference optimization (DPO),
has shown effective in enhancing the generalization abilities of large language
model (LLM). However, in tasks involving video instruction-following, providing
informative feedback, especially for detecting hallucinations in generated
responses, remains a significant challenge. Previous studies have explored
using large large multimodal models (LMMs) as reward models to guide preference
modeling, but their ability to accurately assess the factuality of generated
responses compared to corresponding videos has not been conclusively
established. This paper introduces a novel framework that utilizes detailed
video captions as a proxy of video content, enabling language models to
incorporate this information as supporting evidence for scoring video Question
Answering (QA) predictions. Our approach demonstrates robust alignment with
OpenAI GPT-4V model's reward mechanism, which directly takes video frames as
input. Furthermore, we show that applying this tailored reward through DPO
significantly improves the performance of video LMMs on video QA tasks.

---

## 10. [WavLLM: Towards Robust and Adaptive Speech Large Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.00656)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.00656](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00656)

**Authors**: Shujie Hu, Long Zhou, Shujie Liu, Sanyuan Chen, Hongkun Hao, Jing Pan, Xunying Liu, Jinyu Li, Sunit Sivasankaran, Linquan Liu, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2024-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/speecht5)

### Abstract

The recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized
the field of natural language processing, progressively broadening their scope
to multimodal perception and generation. However, effectively integrating
listening capabilities into LLMs poses significant challenges, particularly
with respect to generalizing across varied contexts and executing complex
auditory tasks. In this work, we introduce WavLLM, a robust and adaptive speech
large language model with dual encoders, and a prompt-aware LoRA weight
adapter, optimized by a two-stage curriculum learning approach. Leveraging dual
encoders, we decouple different types of speech information, utilizing a
Whisper encoder to process the semantic content of speech, and a WavLM encoder
to capture the unique characteristics of the speaker's identity. Within the
curriculum learning framework, WavLLM first builds its foundational
capabilities by optimizing on mixed elementary single tasks, followed by
advanced multi-task training on more complex tasks such as combinations of the
elementary tasks. To enhance the flexibility and adherence to different tasks
and instructions, a prompt-aware LoRA weight adapter is introduced in the
second advanced multi-task training stage. We validate the proposed model on
universal speech benchmarks including tasks such as ASR, ST, SV, ER, and also
apply it to specialized datasets like Gaokao English listening comprehension
set for SQA, and speech Chain-of-Thought (CoT) evaluation set. Experiments
demonstrate that the proposed model achieves state-of-the-art performance
across a range of speech tasks on the same model size, exhibiting robust
generalization capabilities in executing complex tasks using CoT approach.
Furthermore, our model successfully completes Gaokao tasks without specialized
training. The codes, models, audio, and Gaokao evaluation set can be accessed
at aka.ms/wavllm.

---

## 11. [Noise-Aware Training of Layout-Aware Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.00488)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.00488](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00488)

**Authors**: Ritesh Sarkhel, Xiaoqi Ren, Lauro Beltrao Costa, Guolong Su, Vincent Perot, Yanan Xie, Emmanouil Koukoumidis, Arnab Nandi

**Published**: 2024-03-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

A visually rich document (VRD) utilizes visual features along with linguistic
cues to disseminate information. Training a custom extractor that identifies
named entities from a document requires a large number of instances of the
target document type annotated at textual and visual modalities. This is an
expensive bottleneck in enterprise scenarios, where we want to train custom
extractors for thousands of different document types in a scalable way.
Pre-training an extractor model on unlabeled instances of the target document
type, followed by a fine-tuning step on human-labeled instances does not work
in these scenarios, as it surpasses the maximum allowable training time
allocated for the extractor. We address this scenario by proposing a
Noise-Aware Training method or NAT in this paper. Instead of acquiring
expensive human-labeled documents, NAT utilizes weakly labeled documents to
train an extractor in a scalable way. To avoid degradation in the model's
quality due to noisy, weakly labeled samples, NAT estimates the confidence of
each training sample and incorporates it as uncertainty measure during
training. We train multiple state-of-the-art extractor models using NAT.
Experiments on a number of publicly available and in-house datasets show that
NAT-trained models are not only robust in performance -- it outperforms a
transfer-learning baseline by up to 6% in terms of macro-F1 score, but it is
also more label-efficient -- it reduces the amount of human-effort required to
obtain comparable performance by up to 73%.

---

## 12. [ST-LLM: Large Language Models Are Effective Temporal Learners](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.00308)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.00308](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00308)

**Authors**: Ruyang Liu, Chen Li, Haoran Tang, Yixiao Ge, Ying Shan, Ge Li

**Published**: 2024-03-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-04-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/TencentARC/ST-LLM)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have showcased impressive capabilities in text
comprehension and generation, prompting research efforts towards video LLMs to
facilitate human-AI interaction at the video level. However, how to effectively
encode and understand videos in video-based dialogue systems remains to be
solved. In this paper, we investigate a straightforward yet unexplored
question: Can we feed all spatial-temporal tokens into the LLM, thus delegating
the task of video sequence modeling to the LLMs? Surprisingly, this simple
approach yields significant improvements in video understanding. Based upon
this, we propose ST-LLM, an effective video-LLM baseline with Spatial-Temporal
sequence modeling inside LLM. Furthermore, to address the overhead and
stability issues introduced by uncompressed video tokens within LLMs, we
develop a dynamic masking strategy with tailor-made training objectives. For
particularly long videos, we have also designed a global-local input module to
balance efficiency and effectiveness. Consequently, we harness LLM for
proficient spatial-temporal modeling, while upholding efficiency and stability.
Extensive experimental results attest to the effectiveness of our method.
Through a more concise model and training pipeline, ST-LLM establishes a new
state-of-the-art result on VideoChatGPT-Bench and MVBench. Codes have been
available at https://github.com/TencentARC/ST-LLM.

---
