# Daily Papers - 2024-08-05

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-08-05)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [Medical SAM 2: Segment medical images as video via Segment Anything
  Model 2](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.00874)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.00874](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00874)

**Authors**: Jiayuan Zhu, Yunli Qi, Junde Wu

**Published**: 2024-08-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 52

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MedicineToken/Medical-SAM2)

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce Medical SAM 2 (MedSAM-2), an advanced
segmentation model that utilizes the SAM 2 framework to address both 2D and 3D
medical image segmentation tasks. By adopting the philosophy of taking medical
images as videos, MedSAM-2 not only applies to 3D medical images but also
unlocks new One-prompt Segmentation capability. That allows users to provide a
prompt for just one or a specific image targeting an object, after which the
model can autonomously segment the same type of object in all subsequent
images, regardless of temporal relationships between the images. We evaluated
MedSAM-2 across a variety of medical imaging modalities, including abdominal
organs, optic discs, brain tumors, thyroid nodules, and skin lesions, comparing
it against state-of-the-art models in both traditional and interactive
segmentation settings. Our findings show that MedSAM-2 not only surpasses
existing models in performance but also exhibits superior generalization across
a range of medical image segmentation tasks. Our code will be released at:
https://github.com/MedicineToken/Medical-SAM2

---

## 2. [POA: Pre-training Once for Models of All Sizes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.01031)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.01031](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.01031)

**Authors**: Yingying Zhang, Xin Guo, Jiangwei Lao, Lei Yu, Lixiang Ru, Jian Wang, Guo Ye, Huimei He, Jingdong Chen, Ming Yang

**Published**: 2024-08-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/qichuzyy/poa)

### Abstract

Large-scale self-supervised pre-training has paved the way for one foundation
model to handle many different vision tasks. Most pre-training methodologies
train a single model of a certain size at one time. Nevertheless, various
computation or storage constraints in real-world scenarios require substantial
efforts to develop a series of models with different sizes to deploy. Thus, in
this study, we propose a novel tri-branch self-supervised training framework,
termed as POA (Pre-training Once for All), to tackle this aforementioned issue.
Our approach introduces an innovative elastic student branch into a modern
self-distillation paradigm. At each pre-training step, we randomly sample a
sub-network from the original student to form the elastic student and train all
branches in a self-distilling fashion. Once pre-trained, POA allows the
extraction of pre-trained models of diverse sizes for downstream tasks.
Remarkably, the elastic student facilitates the simultaneous pre-training of
multiple models with different sizes, which also acts as an additional ensemble
of models of various sizes to enhance representation learning. Extensive
experiments, including k-nearest neighbors, linear probing evaluation and
assessments on multiple downstream tasks demonstrate the effectiveness and
advantages of our POA. It achieves state-of-the-art performance using ViT, Swin
Transformer and ResNet backbones, producing around a hundred models with
different sizes through a single pre-training session. The code is available
at: https://github.com/Qichuzyy/POA.

---

## 3. [ReLiK: Retrieve and LinK, Fast and Accurate Entity Linking and Relation
  Extraction on an Academic Budget](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.00103)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.00103](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00103)

**Authors**: Riccardo Orlando, Pere-Lluis Huguet-Cabot, Edoardo Barba, Roberto Navigli

**Published**: 2024-07-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-05 by Pere-Lluis Huguet Cabot

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SapienzaNLP/relik)

### Abstract

Entity Linking (EL) and Relation Extraction (RE) are fundamental tasks in
Natural Language Processing, serving as critical components in a wide range of
applications. In this paper, we propose ReLiK, a Retriever-Reader architecture
for both EL and RE, where, given an input text, the Retriever module undertakes
the identification of candidate entities or relations that could potentially
appear within the text. Subsequently, the Reader module is tasked to discern
the pertinent retrieved entities or relations and establish their alignment
with the corresponding textual spans. Notably, we put forward an innovative
input representation that incorporates the candidate entities or relations
alongside the text, making it possible to link entities or extract relations in
a single forward pass and to fully leverage pre-trained language models
contextualization capabilities, in contrast with previous
Retriever-Reader-based methods, which require a forward pass for each
candidate. Our formulation of EL and RE achieves state-of-the-art performance
in both in-domain and out-of-domain benchmarks while using academic budget
training and with up to 40x inference speed compared to competitors. Finally,
we show how our architecture can be used seamlessly for Information Extraction
(cIE), i.e. EL + RE, and setting a new state of the art by employing a shared
Reader that simultaneously extracts entities and relations.

---

## 4. [TexGen: Text-Guided 3D Texture Generation with Multi-view Sampling and
  Resampling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.01291)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.01291](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.01291)

**Authors**: Dong Huo, Zixin Guo, Xinxin Zuo, Juwei Lu, Peng Dai, Songcen Xu, Li Cheng, Yee-Hong Yang

**Published**: 2024-08-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Given a 3D mesh, we aim to synthesize 3D textures that correspond to
arbitrary textual descriptions. Current methods for generating and assembling
textures from sampled views often result in prominent seams or excessive
smoothing. To tackle these issues, we present TexGen, a novel multi-view
sampling and resampling framework for texture generation leveraging a
pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model. For view consistent sampling, first
of all we maintain a texture map in RGB space that is parameterized by the
denoising step and updated after each sampling step of the diffusion model to
progressively reduce the view discrepancy. An attention-guided multi-view
sampling strategy is exploited to broadcast the appearance information across
views. To preserve texture details, we develop a noise resampling technique
that aids in the estimation of noise, generating inputs for subsequent
denoising steps, as directed by the text prompt and current texture map.
Through an extensive amount of qualitative and quantitative evaluations, we
demonstrate that our proposed method produces significantly better texture
quality for diverse 3D objects with a high degree of view consistency and rich
appearance details, outperforming current state-of-the-art methods.
Furthermore, our proposed texture generation technique can also be applied to
texture editing while preserving the original identity. More experimental
results are available at https://dong-huo.github.io/TexGen/

---

## 5. [MuChoMusic: Evaluating Music Understanding in Multimodal Audio-Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.01337)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.01337](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.01337)

**Authors**: Benno Weck, Ilaria Manco, Emmanouil Benetos, Elio Quinton, George Fazekas, Dmitry Bogdanov

**Published**: 2024-08-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mulab-mir/muchomusic)

### Abstract

Multimodal models that jointly process audio and language hold great promise
in audio understanding and are increasingly being adopted in the music domain.
By allowing users to query via text and obtain information about a given audio
input, these models have the potential to enable a variety of music
understanding tasks via language-based interfaces. However, their evaluation
poses considerable challenges, and it remains unclear how to effectively assess
their ability to correctly interpret music-related inputs with current methods.
Motivated by this, we introduce MuChoMusic, a benchmark for evaluating music
understanding in multimodal language models focused on audio. MuChoMusic
comprises 1,187 multiple-choice questions, all validated by human annotators,
on 644 music tracks sourced from two publicly available music datasets, and
covering a wide variety of genres. Questions in the benchmark are crafted to
assess knowledge and reasoning abilities across several dimensions that cover
fundamental musical concepts and their relation to cultural and functional
contexts. Through the holistic analysis afforded by the benchmark, we evaluate
five open-source models and identify several pitfalls, including an
over-reliance on the language modality, pointing to a need for better
multimodal integration. Data and code are open-sourced.

---

## 6. [In-Context Example Selection via Similarity Search Improves Low-Resource
  Machine Translation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.00397)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.00397](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00397)

**Authors**: Armel Zebaze, Benoît Sagot, Rachel Bawden

**Published**: 2024-08-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-05 by Armel Randy Zebaze

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ArmelRandy/ICL-MT)

### Abstract

The ability of generative large language models (LLMs) to perform in-context
learning has given rise to a large body of research into how best to prompt
models for various natural language processing tasks. In this paper, we focus
on machine translation (MT), a task that has been shown to benefit from
in-context translation examples. However no systematic studies have been
published on how best to select examples, and mixed results have been reported
on the usefulness of similarity-based selection over random selection. We
provide a study covering multiple LLMs and multiple in-context example
retrieval strategies, comparing multilingual sentence embeddings. We cover
several language directions, representing different levels of language
resourcedness (English into French, German, Swahili and Wolof). Contrarily to
previously published results, we find that sentence embedding similarity can
improve MT, especially for low-resource language directions, and discuss the
balance between selection pool diversity and quality. We also highlight
potential problems with the evaluation of LLM-based MT and suggest a more
appropriate evaluation protocol, adapting the COMET metric to the evaluation of
LLMs. Code and outputs are freely available at
https://github.com/ArmelRandy/ICL-MT.

---

## 7. [RelBench: A Benchmark for Deep Learning on Relational Databases](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.20060)

**ArXiv ID**: [2407.20060](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.20060)

**Authors**: Joshua Robinson, Rishabh Ranjan, Weihua Hu, Kexin Huang, Jiaqi Han, Alejandro Dobles, Matthias Fey, Jan E. Lenssen, Yiwen Yuan, Zecheng Zhang, Xinwei He, Jure Leskovec

**Published**: 2024-07-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-05 by Zecheng Zhang

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/snap-stanford/relbench)

### Abstract

We present RelBench, a public benchmark for solving predictive tasks over
relational databases with graph neural networks. RelBench provides databases
and tasks spanning diverse domains and scales, and is intended to be a
foundational infrastructure for future research. We use RelBench to conduct the
first comprehensive study of Relational Deep Learning (RDL) (Fey et al., 2024),
which combines graph neural network predictive models with (deep) tabular
models that extract initial entity-level representations from raw tables.
End-to-end learned RDL models fully exploit the predictive signal encoded in
primary-foreign key links, marking a significant shift away from the dominant
paradigm of manual feature engineering combined with tabular models. To
thoroughly evaluate RDL against this prior gold-standard, we conduct an
in-depth user study where an experienced data scientist manually engineers
features for each task. In this study, RDL learns better models whilst reducing
human work needed by more than an order of magnitude. This demonstrates the
power of deep learning for solving predictive tasks over relational databases,
opening up many new research opportunities enabled by RelBench.

---

## 8. [Measuring Progress in Dictionary Learning for Language Model
  Interpretability with Board Game Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.00113)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.00113](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00113)

**Authors**: Adam Karvonen, Benjamin Wright, Can Rager, Rico Angell, Jannik Brinkmann, Logan Smith, Claudio Mayrink Verdun, David Bau, Samuel Marks

**Published**: 2024-07-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-05 by Gabriele Sarti

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/adamkarvonen/SAE_BoardGameEval)

### Abstract

What latent features are encoded in language model (LM) representations?
Recent work on training sparse autoencoders (SAEs) to disentangle interpretable
features in LM representations has shown significant promise. However,
evaluating the quality of these SAEs is difficult because we lack a
ground-truth collection of interpretable features that we expect good SAEs to
recover. We thus propose to measure progress in interpretable dictionary
learning by working in the setting of LMs trained on chess and Othello
transcripts. These settings carry natural collections of interpretable features
-- for example, "there is a knight on F3" -- which we leverage into
supervised metrics for SAE quality. To guide progress in
interpretable dictionary learning, we introduce a new SAE training technique,
p-annealing, which improves performance on prior unsupervised
metrics as well as our new metrics.

---
