# Daily Papers - 2024-08-30

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-08-30)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [Law of Vision Representation in MLLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.16357)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.16357](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16357)

**Authors**: Shijia Yang, Bohan Zhai, Quanzeng You, Jianbo Yuan, Hongxia Yang, Chenfeng Xu

**Published**: 2024-08-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by Chenfeng Xu

**Upvotes**: 95

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bronyayang/law_of_vision_representation_in_mllms)

### Abstract

We present the "Law of Vision Representation" in multimodal large language
models (MLLMs). It reveals a strong correlation between the combination of
cross-modal alignment, correspondence in vision representation, and MLLM
performance. We quantify the two factors using the cross-modal Alignment and
Correspondence score (AC score). Through extensive experiments involving
thirteen different vision representation settings and evaluations across eight
benchmarks, we find that the AC score is linearly correlated to model
performance. By leveraging this relationship, we are able to identify and train
the optimal vision representation only, which does not require finetuning the
language model every time, resulting in a 99.7% reduction in computational
cost.

---

## 2. [CogVLM2: Visual Language Models for Image and Video Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.16500)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.16500](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16500)

**Authors**: Wenyi Hong, Weihan Wang, Ming Ding, Wenmeng Yu, Qingsong Lv, Yan Wang, Yean Cheng, Shiyu Huang, Junhui Ji, Zhao Xue, Lei Zhao, Zhuoyi Yang, Xiaotao Gu, Xiaohan Zhang, Guanyu Feng, Da Yin, Zihan Wang, Ji Qi, Xixuan Song, Peng Zhang, Debing Liu, Bin Xu, Juanzi Li, Yuxiao Dong, Jie Tang

**Published**: 2024-08-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 57

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thudm/glm-4)

### Abstract

Beginning with VisualGLM and CogVLM, we are continuously exploring VLMs in
pursuit of enhanced vision-language fusion, efficient higher-resolution
architecture, and broader modalities and applications. Here we propose the
CogVLM2 family, a new generation of visual language models for image and video
understanding including CogVLM2, CogVLM2-Video and GLM-4V. As an image
understanding model, CogVLM2 inherits the visual expert architecture with
improved training recipes in both pre-training and post-training stages,
supporting input resolution up to 1344 times 1344 pixels. As a video
understanding model, CogVLM2-Video integrates multi-frame input with timestamps
and proposes automated temporal grounding data construction. Notably, CogVLM2
family has achieved state-of-the-art results on benchmarks like MMBench,
MM-Vet, TextVQA, MVBench and VCGBench. All models are open-sourced in
https://github.com/THUDM/CogVLM2 and https://github.com/THUDM/GLM-4,
contributing to the advancement of the field.

---

## 3. [WavTokenizer: an Efficient Acoustic Discrete Codec Tokenizer for Audio
  Language Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.16532)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.16532](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16532)

**Authors**: Shengpeng Ji, Ziyue Jiang, Xize Cheng, Yifu Chen, Minghui Fang, Jialong Zuo, Qian Yang, Ruiqi Li, Ziang Zhang, Xiaoda Yang, Rongjie Huang, Yidi Jiang, Qian Chen, Siqi Zheng, Wen Wang, Zhou Zhao

**Published**: 2024-08-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 50

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jishengpeng/WavTokenizer)

### Abstract

Language models have been effectively applied to modeling natural signals,
such as images, video, speech, and audio. A crucial component of these models
is the codec tokenizer, which compresses high-dimensional natural signals into
lower-dimensional discrete tokens. In this paper, we introduce WavTokenizer,
which offers several advantages over previous SOTA acoustic codec models in the
audio domain: 1)extreme compression. By compressing the layers of quantizers
and the temporal dimension of the discrete codec, one-second audio of 24kHz
sampling rate requires only a single quantizer with 40 or 75 tokens. 2)improved
subjective quality. Despite the reduced number of tokens, WavTokenizer achieves
state-of-the-art reconstruction quality with outstanding UTMOS scores and
inherently contains richer semantic information. Specifically, we achieve these
results by designing a broader VQ space, extended contextual windows, and
improved attention networks, as well as introducing a powerful multi-scale
discriminator and an inverse Fourier transform structure. We conducted
extensive reconstruction experiments in the domains of speech, audio, and
music. WavTokenizer exhibited strong performance across various objective and
subjective metrics compared to state-of-the-art models. We also tested semantic
information, VQ utilization, and adaptability to generative models.
Comprehensive ablation studies confirm the necessity of each module in
WavTokenizer. The related code, demos, and pre-trained models are available at
https://github.com/jishengpeng/WavTokenizer.

---

## 4. [ReconX: Reconstruct Any Scene from Sparse Views with Video Diffusion
  Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.16767)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.16767](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16767)

**Authors**: Fangfu Liu, Wenqiang Sun, Hanyang Wang, Yikai Wang, Haowen Sun, Junliang Ye, Jun Zhang, Yueqi Duan

**Published**: 2024-08-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

### Abstract

Advancements in 3D scene reconstruction have transformed 2D images from the
real world into 3D models, producing realistic 3D results from hundreds of
input photos. Despite great success in dense-view reconstruction scenarios,
rendering a detailed scene from insufficient captured views is still an
ill-posed optimization problem, often resulting in artifacts and distortions in
unseen areas. In this paper, we propose ReconX, a novel 3D scene reconstruction
paradigm that reframes the ambiguous reconstruction challenge as a temporal
generation task. The key insight is to unleash the strong generative prior of
large pre-trained video diffusion models for sparse-view reconstruction.
However, 3D view consistency struggles to be accurately preserved in directly
generated video frames from pre-trained models. To address this, given limited
input views, the proposed ReconX first constructs a global point cloud and
encodes it into a contextual space as the 3D structure condition. Guided by the
condition, the video diffusion model then synthesizes video frames that are
both detail-preserved and exhibit a high degree of 3D consistency, ensuring the
coherence of the scene from various perspectives. Finally, we recover the 3D
scene from the generated video through a confidence-aware 3D Gaussian Splatting
optimization scheme. Extensive experiments on various real-world datasets show
the superiority of our ReconX over state-of-the-art methods in terms of quality
and generalizability.

---

## 5. [SAM2Point: Segment Any 3D as Videos in Zero-shot and Promptable Manners](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.16768)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.16768](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16768)

**Authors**: Ziyu Guo, Renrui Zhang, Xiangyang Zhu, Chengzhuo Tong, Peng Gao, Chunyuan Li, Pheng-Ann Heng

**Published**: 2024-08-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ziyuguo99/sam2point)

### Abstract

We introduce SAM2Point, a preliminary exploration adapting Segment Anything
Model 2 (SAM 2) for zero-shot and promptable 3D segmentation. SAM2Point
interprets any 3D data as a series of multi-directional videos, and leverages
SAM 2 for 3D-space segmentation, without further training or 2D-3D projection.
Our framework supports various prompt types, including 3D points, boxes, and
masks, and can generalize across diverse scenarios, such as 3D objects, indoor
scenes, outdoor environments, and raw sparse LiDAR. Demonstrations on multiple
3D datasets, e.g., Objaverse, S3DIS, ScanNet, Semantic3D, and KITTI, highlight
the robust generalization capabilities of SAM2Point. To our best knowledge, we
present the most faithful implementation of SAM in 3D, which may serve as a
starting point for future research in promptable 3D segmentation. Online Demo:
https://huggingface.co/spaces/ZiyuG/SAM2Point . Code:
https://github.com/ZiyuGuo99/SAM2Point .

---

## 6. [Physics of Language Models: Part 2.2, How to Learn From Mistakes on
  Grade-School Math Problems](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.16293)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.16293](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16293)

**Authors**: Tian Ye, Zicheng Xu, Yuanzhi Li, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu

**Published**: 2024-08-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by Zeyuan Allen-Zhu

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [Project Page](https://physics.allen-zhu.com/part-2-grade-school-math/part-2-2)

### Abstract

Language models have demonstrated remarkable performance in solving reasoning
tasks; however, even the strongest models still occasionally make reasoning
mistakes. Recently, there has been active research aimed at improving reasoning
accuracy, particularly by using pretrained language models to "self-correct"
their mistakes via multi-round prompting. In this paper, we follow this line of
work but focus on understanding the usefulness of incorporating
"error-correction" data directly into the pretraining stage. This data consists
of erroneous solution steps immediately followed by their corrections. Using a
synthetic math dataset, we show promising results: this type of pretrain data
can help language models achieve higher reasoning accuracy directly (i.e.,
through simple auto-regression, without multi-round prompting) compared to
pretraining on the same amount of error-free data. We also delve into many
details, such as (1) how this approach differs from beam search, (2) how such
data can be prepared, (3) whether masking is needed on the erroneous tokens,
(4) the amount of error required, (5) whether such data can be deferred to the
fine-tuning stage, and many others.

---

## 7. [CSGO: Content-Style Composition in Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.16766)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.16766](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16766)

**Authors**: Peng Xing, Haofan Wang, Yanpeng Sun, Qixun Wang, Xu Bai, Hao Ai, Renyuan Huang, Zechao Li

**Published**: 2024-08-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/instantX-research/CSGO) | [Project Page](https://csgo-gen.github.io/)

### Abstract

The diffusion model has shown exceptional capabilities in controlled image
generation, which has further fueled interest in image style transfer. Existing
works mainly focus on training free-based methods (e.g., image inversion) due
to the scarcity of specific data. In this study, we present a data construction
pipeline for content-style-stylized image triplets that generates and
automatically cleanses stylized data triplets. Based on this pipeline, we
construct a dataset IMAGStyle, the first large-scale style transfer dataset
containing 210k image triplets, available for the community to explore and
research. Equipped with IMAGStyle, we propose CSGO, a style transfer model
based on end-to-end training, which explicitly decouples content and style
features employing independent feature injection. The unified CSGO implements
image-driven style transfer, text-driven stylized synthesis, and text
editing-driven stylized synthesis. Extensive experiments demonstrate the
effectiveness of our approach in enhancing style control capabilities in image
generation. Additional visualization and access to the source code can be
located on the project page: https://csgo-gen.github.io/.

---

## 8. [3D Reconstruction with Spatial Memory](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.16061)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.16061](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16061)

**Authors**: Hengyi Wang, Lourdes Agapito

**Published**: 2024-08-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hengyiwang/spann3r)

### Abstract

We present Spann3R, a novel approach for dense 3D reconstruction from ordered
or unordered image collections. Built on the DUSt3R paradigm, Spann3R uses a
transformer-based architecture to directly regress pointmaps from images
without any prior knowledge of the scene or camera parameters. Unlike DUSt3R,
which predicts per image-pair pointmaps each expressed in its local coordinate
frame, Spann3R can predict per-image pointmaps expressed in a global coordinate
system, thus eliminating the need for optimization-based global alignment. The
key idea of Spann3R is to manage an external spatial memory that learns to keep
track of all previous relevant 3D information. Spann3R then queries this
spatial memory to predict the 3D structure of the next frame in a global
coordinate system. Taking advantage of DUSt3R's pre-trained weights, and
further fine-tuning on a subset of datasets, Spann3R shows competitive
performance and generalization ability on various unseen datasets and can
process ordered image collections in real time. Project page:
https://hengyiwang.github.io/projects/spanner

---

## 9. [StyleRemix: Interpretable Authorship Obfuscation via Distillation and
  Perturbation of Style Elements](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.15666)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.15666](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15666)

**Authors**: Jillian Fisher, Skyler Hallinan, Ximing Lu, Mitchell Gordon, Zaid Harchaoui, Yejin Choi

**Published**: 2024-08-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by Skyler Hallinan

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jfisher52/StyleRemix)

### Abstract

Authorship obfuscation, rewriting a text to intentionally obscure the
identity of the author, is an important but challenging task. Current methods
using large language models (LLMs) lack interpretability and controllability,
often ignoring author-specific stylistic features, resulting in less robust
performance overall.
  To address this, we develop StyleRemix, an adaptive and interpretable
obfuscation method that perturbs specific, fine-grained style elements of the
original input text. StyleRemix uses pre-trained Low Rank Adaptation (LoRA)
modules to rewrite an input specifically along various stylistic axes (e.g.,
formality and length) while maintaining low computational cost. StyleRemix
outperforms state-of-the-art baselines and much larger LLMs in a variety of
domains as assessed by both automatic and human evaluation.
  Additionally, we release AuthorMix, a large set of 30K high-quality,
long-form texts from a diverse set of 14 authors and 4 domains, and DiSC, a
parallel corpus of 1,500 texts spanning seven style axes in 16 unique
directions

---

## 10. [Scaling Up Diffusion and Flow-based XGBoost Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.16046)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.16046](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16046)

**Authors**: Jesse C. Cresswell, Taewoo Kim

**Published**: 2024-08-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/layer6ai-labs/calo-forest)

### Abstract

Novel machine learning methods for tabular data generation are often
developed on small datasets which do not match the scale required for
scientific applications. We investigate a recent proposal to use XGBoost as the
function approximator in diffusion and flow-matching models on tabular data,
which proved to be extremely memory intensive, even on tiny datasets. In this
work, we conduct a critical analysis of the existing implementation from an
engineering perspective, and show that these limitations are not fundamental to
the method; with better implementation it can be scaled to datasets 370x larger
than previously used. Our efficient implementation also unlocks scaling models
to much larger sizes which we show directly leads to improved performance on
benchmark tasks. We also propose algorithmic improvements that can further
benefit resource usage and model performance, including multi-output trees
which are well-suited to generative modeling. Finally, we present results on
large-scale scientific datasets derived from experimental particle physics as
part of the Fast Calorimeter Simulation Challenge. Code is available at
https://github.com/layer6ai-labs/calo-forest.

---

## 11. [Meta Flow Matching: Integrating Vector Fields on the Wasserstein
  Manifold](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.14608)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.14608](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.14608)

**Authors**: Lazar Atanackovic, Xi Zhang, Brandon Amos, Mathieu Blanchette, Leo J. Lee, Yoshua Bengio, Alexander Tong, Kirill Neklyudov

**Published**: 2024-08-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-30 by Kirill Neklyudov

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Numerous biological and physical processes can be modeled as systems of
interacting entities evolving continuously over time, e.g. the dynamics of
communicating cells or physical particles. Learning the dynamics of such
systems is essential for predicting the temporal evolution of populations
across novel samples and unseen environments. Flow-based models allow for
learning these dynamics at the population level - they model the evolution of
the entire distribution of samples. However, current flow-based models are
limited to a single initial population and a set of predefined conditions which
describe different dynamics. We argue that multiple processes in natural
sciences have to be represented as vector fields on the Wasserstein manifold of
probability densities. That is, the change of the population at any moment in
time depends on the population itself due to the interactions between samples.
In particular, this is crucial for personalized medicine where the development
of diseases and their respective treatment response depends on the
microenvironment of cells specific to each patient. We propose Meta Flow
Matching (MFM), a practical approach to integrating along these vector fields
on the Wasserstein manifold by amortizing the flow model over the initial
populations. Namely, we embed the population of samples using a Graph Neural
Network (GNN) and use these embeddings to train a Flow Matching model. This
gives MFM the ability to generalize over the initial distributions unlike
previously proposed methods. We demonstrate the ability of MFM to improve
prediction of individual treatment responses on a large scale multi-patient
single-cell drug screen dataset.

---
