# Daily Papers - 2024-08-08

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-08-08)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [EXAONE 3.0 7.8B Instruction Tuned Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03541)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03541](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03541)

**Organization**: LG AI Research

**Authors**: LG AI Research, Soyoung An, Kyunghoon Bae, Eunbi Choi, Stanley Jungkyu Choi, Yemuk Choi, Seokhee Hong, Yeonjung Hong, Junwon Hwang, Hyojin Jeon, Gerrard Jeongwon Jo, Hyunjik Jo, Jiyeon Jung, Yountae Jung, Euisoon Kim, Hyosang Kim, Joonkee Kim, Seonghwan Kim, Soyeon Kim, Sunkyoung Kim, Yireun Kim, Youchul Kim, Edward Hwayoung Lee, Haeju Lee, Honglak Lee, Jinsik Lee, Kyungmin Lee, Moontae Lee, Seungjun Lee, Woohyung Lim, Sangha Park, Sooyoun Park, Yongmin Park, Boseong Seo, Sihoon Yang, Heuiyeen Yeen, Kyungjae Yoo, Hyeongu Yun

**Published**: 2024-08-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 35

### Abstract

We introduce EXAONE 3.0 instruction-tuned language model, the first open
model in the family of Large Language Models (LLMs) developed by LG AI
Research. Among different model sizes, we publicly release the 7.8B
instruction-tuned model to promote open research and innovations. Through
extensive evaluations across a wide range of public and in-house benchmarks,
EXAONE 3.0 demonstrates highly competitive real-world performance with
instruction-following capability against other state-of-the-art open models of
similar size. Our comparative analysis shows that EXAONE 3.0 excels
particularly in Korean, while achieving compelling performance across general
tasks and complex reasoning. With its strong real-world effectiveness and
bilingual proficiency, we hope that EXAONE keeps contributing to advancements
in Expert AI. Our EXAONE 3.0 instruction-tuned model is available at
https://huggingface.co/LGAI-EXAONE/EXAONE-3.0-7.8B-Instruct

---

## 2. [Optimus-1: Hybrid Multimodal Memory Empowered Agents Excel in
  Long-Horizon Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03615)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03615](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03615)

**Authors**: Zaijing Li, Yuquan Xie, Rui Shao, Gongwei Chen, Dongmei Jiang, Liqiang Nie

**Published**: 2024-08-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/JiuTian-VL/Optimus-1)

### Abstract

Building a general-purpose agent is a long-standing vision in the field of
artificial intelligence. Existing agents have made remarkable progress in many
domains, yet they still struggle to complete long-horizon tasks in an open
world. We attribute this to the lack of necessary world knowledge and
multimodal experience that can guide agents through a variety of long-horizon
tasks. In this paper, we propose a Hybrid Multimodal Memory module to address
the above challenges. It 1) transforms knowledge into Hierarchical Directed
Knowledge Graph that allows agents to explicitly represent and learn world
knowledge, and 2) summarises historical information into Abstracted Multimodal
Experience Pool that provide agents with rich references for in-context
learning. On top of the Hybrid Multimodal Memory module, a multimodal agent,
Optimus-1, is constructed with dedicated Knowledge-guided Planner and
Experience-Driven Reflector, contributing to a better planning and reflection
in the face of long-horizon tasks in Minecraft. Extensive experimental results
show that Optimus-1 significantly outperforms all existing agents on
challenging long-horizon task benchmarks, and exhibits near human-level
performance on many tasks. In addition, we introduce various Multimodal Large
Language Models (MLLMs) as the backbone of Optimus-1. Experimental results show
that Optimus-1 exhibits strong generalization with the help of the Hybrid
Multimodal Memory module, outperforming the GPT-4V baseline on many tasks.

---

## 3. [Achieving Human Level Competitive Robot Table Tennis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03906)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03906](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03906)

**Authors**: David B. D'Ambrosio, Saminda Abeyruwan, Laura Graesser, Atil Iscen, Heni Ben Amor, Alex Bewley, Barney J. Reed, Krista Reymann, Leila Takayama, Yuval Tassa, Krzysztof Choromanski, Erwin Coumans, Deepali Jain, Navdeep Jaitly, Natasha Jaques, Satoshi Kataoka, Yuheng Kuang, Nevena Lazic, Reza Mahjourian, Sherry Moore, Kenneth Oslund, Anish Shankar, Vikas Sindhwani, Vincent Vanhoucke, Grace Vesom, Peng Xu, Pannag R. Sanketi

**Published**: 2024-08-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [Project Page](https://sites.google.com/view/competitive-robot-table-tennis)

### Abstract

Achieving human-level speed and performance on real world tasks is a north
star for the robotics research community. This work takes a step towards that
goal and presents the first learned robot agent that reaches amateur
human-level performance in competitive table tennis. Table tennis is a
physically demanding sport which requires human players to undergo years of
training to achieve an advanced level of proficiency. In this paper, we
contribute (1) a hierarchical and modular policy architecture consisting of (i)
low level controllers with their detailed skill descriptors which model the
agent's capabilities and help to bridge the sim-to-real gap and (ii) a high
level controller that chooses the low level skills, (2) techniques for enabling
zero-shot sim-to-real including an iterative approach to defining the task
distribution that is grounded in the real-world and defines an automatic
curriculum, and (3) real time adaptation to unseen opponents. Policy
performance was assessed through 29 robot vs. human matches of which the robot
won 45% (13/29). All humans were unseen players and their skill level varied
from beginner to tournament level. Whilst the robot lost all matches vs. the
most advanced players it won 100% matches vs. beginners and 55% matches vs.
intermediate players, demonstrating solidly amateur human-level performance.
Videos of the matches can be viewed at
https://sites.google.com/view/competitive-robot-table-tennis

---

## 4. [CodexGraph: Bridging Large Language Models and Code Repositories via
  Code Graph Databases](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03910)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03910](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03910)

**Authors**: Xiangyan Liu, Bo Lan, Yang Liu, Zhicheng Zhang, Wenmeng Zhou, Fei Wang, Michael Shieh

**Published**: 2024-08-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/modelscope/modelscope-agent)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in stand-alone code tasks like HumanEval
and MBPP, but struggle with handling entire code repositories. This challenge
has prompted research on enhancing LLM-codebase interaction at a repository
scale. Current solutions rely on similarity-based retrieval or manual tools and
APIs, each with notable drawbacks. Similarity-based retrieval often has low
recall in complex tasks, while manual tools and APIs are typically
task-specific and require expert knowledge, reducing their generalizability
across diverse code tasks and real-world applications. To mitigate these
limitations, we introduce \framework, a system that integrates LLM agents with
graph database interfaces extracted from code repositories. By leveraging the
structural properties of graph databases and the flexibility of the graph query
language, \framework enables the LLM agent to construct and execute queries,
allowing for precise, code structure-aware context retrieval and code
navigation. We assess \framework using three benchmarks: CrossCodeEval,
SWE-bench, and EvoCodeBench. Additionally, we develop five real-world coding
applications. With a unified graph database schema, \framework demonstrates
competitive performance and potential in both academic and real-world
environments, showcasing its versatility and efficacy in software engineering.
Our application demo:
https://github.com/modelscope/modelscope-agent/tree/master/apps/codexgraph_agent.

---

## 5. [WalledEval: A Comprehensive Safety Evaluation Toolkit for Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03837)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03837](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03837)

**Authors**: Prannaya Gupta, Le Qi Yau, Hao Han Low, I-Shiang Lee, Hugo Maximus Lim, Yu Xin Teoh, Jia Hng Koh, Dar Win Liew, Rishabh Bhardwaj, Rajat Bhardwaj, Soujanya Poria

**Published**: 2024-08-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/walledai/walledeval) | [Project Page](https://walledai.github.io/walledeval/)

### Abstract

WalledEval is a comprehensive AI safety testing toolkit designed to evaluate
large language models (LLMs). It accommodates a diverse range of models,
including both open-weight and API-based ones, and features over 35 safety
benchmarks covering areas such as multilingual safety, exaggerated safety, and
prompt injections. The framework supports both LLM and judge benchmarking, and
incorporates custom mutators to test safety against various text-style
mutations such as future tense and paraphrasing. Additionally, WalledEval
introduces WalledGuard, a new, small and performant content moderation tool,
and SGXSTest, a benchmark for assessing exaggerated safety in cultural
contexts. We make WalledEval publicly available at
https://github.com/walledai/walledevalA.

---

## 6. [Compact 3D Gaussian Splatting for Static and Dynamic Radiance Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03822)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03822](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03822)

**Authors**: Joo Chan Lee, Daniel Rho, Xiangyu Sun, Jong Hwan Ko, Eunbyung Park

**Published**: 2024-08-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/maincold2/Dynamic_C3DGS) | [Project Page](https://maincold2.github.io/c3dgs/)

### Abstract

3D Gaussian splatting (3DGS) has recently emerged as an alternative
representation that leverages a 3D Gaussian-based representation and introduces
an approximated volumetric rendering, achieving very fast rendering speed and
promising image quality. Furthermore, subsequent studies have successfully
extended 3DGS to dynamic 3D scenes, demonstrating its wide range of
applications. However, a significant drawback arises as 3DGS and its following
methods entail a substantial number of Gaussians to maintain the high fidelity
of the rendered images, which requires a large amount of memory and storage. To
address this critical issue, we place a specific emphasis on two key
objectives: reducing the number of Gaussian points without sacrificing
performance and compressing the Gaussian attributes, such as view-dependent
color and covariance. To this end, we propose a learnable mask strategy that
significantly reduces the number of Gaussians while preserving high
performance. In addition, we propose a compact but effective representation of
view-dependent color by employing a grid-based neural field rather than relying
on spherical harmonics. Finally, we learn codebooks to compactly represent the
geometric and temporal attributes by residual vector quantization. With model
compression techniques such as quantization and entropy coding, we consistently
show over 25x reduced storage and enhanced rendering speed compared to 3DGS for
static scenes, while maintaining the quality of the scene representation. For
dynamic scenes, our approach achieves more than 12x storage efficiency and
retains a high-quality reconstruction compared to the existing state-of-the-art
methods. Our work provides a comprehensive framework for 3D scene
representation, achieving high performance, fast training, compactness, and
real-time rendering. Our project page is available at
https://maincold2.github.io/c3dgs/.

---

## 7. [Openstory++: A Large-scale Dataset and Benchmark for Instance-aware
  Open-domain Visual Storytelling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03695)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03695](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03695)

**Authors**: Zilyu Ye, Jinxiu Liu, Ruotian Peng, Jinjin Cao, Zhiyang Chen, Yiyang Zhang, Ziwei Xuan, Mingyuan Zhou, Xiaoqian Shen, Mohamed Elhoseiny, Qi Liu, Guo-Jun Qi

**Published**: 2024-08-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/YeLuoSuiYou/openstorypp)

### Abstract

Recent image generation models excel at creating high-quality images from
brief captions. However, they fail to maintain consistency of multiple
instances across images when encountering lengthy contexts. This inconsistency
is largely due to in existing training datasets the absence of granular
instance feature labeling in existing training datasets. To tackle these
issues, we introduce Openstory++, a large-scale dataset combining additional
instance-level annotations with both images and text. Furthermore, we develop a
training methodology that emphasizes entity-centric image-text generation,
ensuring that the models learn to effectively interweave visual and textual
information. Specifically, Openstory++ streamlines the process of keyframe
extraction from open-domain videos, employing vision-language models to
generate captions that are then polished by a large language model for
narrative continuity. It surpasses previous datasets by offering a more
expansive open-domain resource, which incorporates automated captioning,
high-resolution imagery tailored for instance count, and extensive frame
sequences for temporal consistency. Additionally, we present Cohere-Bench, a
pioneering benchmark framework for evaluating the image generation tasks when
long multimodal context is provided, including the ability to keep the
background, style, instances in the given context coherent. Compared to
existing benchmarks, our work fills critical gaps in multi-modal generation,
propelling the development of models that can adeptly generate and interpret
complex narratives in open-domain environments. Experiments conducted within
Cohere-Bench confirm the superiority of Openstory++ in nurturing high-quality
visual storytelling models, enhancing their ability to address open-domain
generation tasks. More details can be found at https://openstorypp.github.io/

---

## 8. [Speech-MASSIVE: A Multilingual Speech Dataset for SLU and Beyond](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03900)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03900](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03900)

**Authors**: Beomseok Lee, Ioan Calapodescu, Marco Gaido, Matteo Negri, Laurent Besacier

**Published**: 2024-08-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hlt-mt/speech-massive)

### Abstract

We present Speech-MASSIVE, a multilingual Spoken Language Understanding (SLU)
dataset comprising the speech counterpart for a portion of the MASSIVE textual
corpus. Speech-MASSIVE covers 12 languages from different families and inherits
from MASSIVE the annotations for the intent prediction and slot-filling tasks.
Our extension is prompted by the scarcity of massively multilingual SLU
datasets and the growing need for versatile speech datasets to assess
foundation models (LLMs, speech encoders) across languages and tasks. We
provide a multimodal, multitask, multilingual dataset and report SLU baselines
using both cascaded and end-to-end architectures in various training scenarios
(zero-shot, few-shot, and full fine-tune). Furthermore, we demonstrate the
suitability of Speech-MASSIVE for benchmarking other tasks such as speech
transcription, language identification, and speech translation. The dataset,
models, and code are publicly available at:
https://github.com/hlt-mt/Speech-MASSIVE

---

## 9. [RayGauss: Volumetric Gaussian-Based Ray Casting for Photorealistic Novel
  View Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03356)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03356](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03356)

**Authors**: Hugo Blanc, Jean-Emmanuel Deschaud, Alexis Paljic

**Published**: 2024-08-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Differentiable volumetric rendering-based methods made significant progress
in novel view synthesis. On one hand, innovative methods have replaced the
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) network with locally parameterized structures,
enabling high-quality renderings in a reasonable time. On the other hand,
approaches have used differentiable splatting instead of NeRF's ray casting to
optimize radiance fields rapidly using Gaussian kernels, allowing for fine
adaptation to the scene. However, differentiable ray casting of irregularly
spaced kernels has been scarcely explored, while splatting, despite enabling
fast rendering times, is susceptible to clearly visible artifacts.
  Our work closes this gap by providing a physically consistent formulation of
the emitted radiance c and density {\sigma}, decomposed with Gaussian functions
associated with Spherical Gaussians/Harmonics for all-frequency colorimetric
representation. We also introduce a method enabling differentiable ray casting
of irregularly distributed Gaussians using an algorithm that integrates
radiance fields slab by slab and leverages a BVH structure. This allows our
approach to finely adapt to the scene while avoiding splatting artifacts. As a
result, we achieve superior rendering quality compared to the state-of-the-art
while maintaining reasonable training times and achieving inference speeds of
25 FPS on the Blender dataset. Project page with videos and code:
https://raygauss.github.io/

---

## 10. [Fast Sprite Decomposition from Animated Graphics](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03923)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03923](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03923)

**Authors**: Tomoyuki Suzuki, Kotaro Kikuchi, Kota Yamaguchi

**Published**: 2024-08-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/CyberAgentAILab/sprite-decompose) | [Project Page](https://cyberagentailab.github.io/sprite-decompose/)

### Abstract

This paper presents an approach to decomposing animated graphics into
sprites, a set of basic elements or layers. Our approach builds on the
optimization of sprite parameters to fit the raster video. For efficiency, we
assume static textures for sprites to reduce the search space while preventing
artifacts using a texture prior model. To further speed up the optimization, we
introduce the initialization of the sprite parameters utilizing a pre-trained
video object segmentation model and user input of single frame annotations. For
our study, we construct the Crello Animation dataset from an online design
service and define quantitative metrics to measure the quality of the extracted
sprites. Experiments show that our method significantly outperforms baselines
for similar decomposition tasks in terms of the quality/efficiency tradeoff.

---

## 11. [Facing the Music: Tackling Singing Voice Separation in Cinematic Audio
  Source Separation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.03588)

**ArXiv ID**: [2408.03588](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03588)

**Authors**: Karn N. Watcharasupat, Chih-Wei Wu, Iroro Orife

**Published**: 2024-08-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-08-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kwatcharasupat/source-separation-landing)

### Abstract

Cinematic audio source separation (CASS) is a fairly new subtask of audio
source separation. A typical setup of CASS is a three-stem problem, with the
aim of separating the mixture into the dialogue stem (DX), music stem (MX), and
effects stem (FX). In practice, however, several edge cases exist as some sound
sources do not fit neatly in either of these three stems, necessitating the use
of additional auxiliary stems in production. One very common edge case is the
singing voice in film audio, which may belong in either the DX or MX, depending
heavily on the cinematic context. In this work, we demonstrate a very
straightforward extension of the dedicated-decoder Bandit and query-based
single-decoder Banquet models to a four-stem problem, treating non-musical
dialogue, instrumental music, singing voice, and effects as separate stems.
Interestingly, the query-based Banquet model outperformed the dedicated-decoder
Bandit model. We hypothesized that this is due to a better feature alignment at
the bottleneck as enforced by the band-agnostic FiLM layer. Dataset and model
implementation will be made available at
https://github.com/kwatcharasupat/source-separation-landing.

---
