# Daily Papers - 2024-05-29

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-05-29)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [Phased Consistency Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18407)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18407](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18407)

**Authors**: Fu-Yun Wang, Zhaoyang Huang, Alexander William Bergman, Dazhong Shen, Peng Gao, Michael Lingelbach, Keqiang Sun, Weikang Bian, Guanglu Song, Yu Liu, Hongsheng Li, Xiaogang Wang

**Published**: 2024-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 48

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/G-U-N/Phased-Consistency-Model)

### Abstract

The consistency model (CM) has recently made significant progress in
accelerating the generation of diffusion models. However, its application to
high-resolution, text-conditioned image generation in the latent space (a.k.a.,
LCM) remains unsatisfactory. In this paper, we identify three key flaws in the
current design of LCM. We investigate the reasons behind these limitations and
propose the Phased Consistency Model (PCM), which generalizes the design space
and addresses all identified limitations. Our evaluations demonstrate that PCM
significantly outperforms LCM across 1--16 step generation settings. While PCM
is specifically designed for multi-step refinement, it achieves even superior
or comparable 1-step generation results to previously state-of-the-art
specifically designed 1-step methods. Furthermore, we show that PCM's
methodology is versatile and applicable to video generation, enabling us to
train the state-of-the-art few-step text-to-video generator. More details are
available at https://g-u-n.github.io/projects/pcm/.

---

## 2. [2BP: 2-Stage Backpropagation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18047)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18047](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18047)

**Authors**: Christopher Rae, Joseph K. L. Lee, James Richings

**Published**: 2024-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

As Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) grow in size and complexity, they often exceed
the memory capacity of a single accelerator, necessitating the sharding of
model parameters across multiple accelerators. Pipeline parallelism is a
commonly used sharding strategy for training large DNNs. However, current
implementations of pipeline parallelism are being unintentionally bottlenecked
by the automatic differentiation tools provided by ML frameworks. This paper
introduces 2-stage backpropagation (2BP). By splitting the backward propagation
step into two separate stages, we can reduce idle compute time. We tested 2BP
on various model architectures and pipelining schedules, achieving increases in
throughput in all cases. Using 2BP, we were able to achieve a 1.70x increase in
throughput compared to traditional methods when training a LLaMa-like
transformer with 7 billion parameters across 4 GPUs.

---

## 3. [Instruct-MusicGen: Unlocking Text-to-Music Editing for Music Language
  Models via Instruction Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18386)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18386](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18386)

**Authors**: Yixiao Zhang, Yukara Ikemiya, Woosung Choi, Naoki Murata, Marco A. Martínez-Ramírez, Liwei Lin, Gus Xia, Wei-Hsiang Liao, Yuki Mitsufuji, Simon Dixon

**Published**: 2024-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ldzhangyx/instruct-MusicGen)

### Abstract

Recent advances in text-to-music editing, which employ text queries to modify
music (e.g.\ by changing its style or adjusting instrumental components),
present unique challenges and opportunities for AI-assisted music creation.
Previous approaches in this domain have been constrained by the necessity to
train specific editing models from scratch, which is both resource-intensive
and inefficient; other research uses large language models to predict edited
music, resulting in imprecise audio reconstruction. To Combine the strengths
and address these limitations, we introduce Instruct-MusicGen, a novel approach
that finetunes a pretrained MusicGen model to efficiently follow editing
instructions such as adding, removing, or separating stems. Our approach
involves a modification of the original MusicGen architecture by incorporating
a text fusion module and an audio fusion module, which allow the model to
process instruction texts and audio inputs concurrently and yield the desired
edited music. Remarkably, Instruct-MusicGen only introduces 8% new parameters
to the original MusicGen model and only trains for 5K steps, yet it achieves
superior performance across all tasks compared to existing baselines, and
demonstrates performance comparable to the models trained for specific tasks.
This advancement not only enhances the efficiency of text-to-music editing but
also broadens the applicability of music language models in dynamic music
production environments.

---

## 4. [LLaMA-NAS: Efficient Neural Architecture Search for Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18377)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18377](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18377)

**Authors**: Anthony Sarah, Sharath Nittur Sridhar, Maciej Szankin, Sairam Sundaresan

**Published**: 2024-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

The abilities of modern large language models (LLMs) in solving natural
language processing, complex reasoning, sentiment analysis and other tasks have
been extraordinary which has prompted their extensive adoption. Unfortunately,
these abilities come with very high memory and computational costs which
precludes the use of LLMs on most hardware platforms. To mitigate this, we
propose an effective method of finding Pareto-optimal network architectures
based on LLaMA2-7B using one-shot NAS. In particular, we fine-tune LLaMA2-7B
only once and then apply genetic algorithm-based search to find smaller, less
computationally complex network architectures. We show that, for certain
standard benchmark tasks, the pre-trained LLaMA2-7B network is unnecessarily
large and complex. More specifically, we demonstrate a 1.5x reduction in model
size and 1.3x speedup in throughput for certain tasks with negligible drop in
accuracy. In addition to finding smaller, higher-performing network
architectures, our method does so more effectively and efficiently than certain
pruning or sparsification techniques. Finally, we demonstrate how quantization
is complementary to our method and that the size and complexity of the networks
we find can be further decreased using quantization. We believe that our work
provides a way to automatically create LLMs which can be used on less expensive
and more readily available hardware platforms.

---

## 5. [Yuan 2.0-M32: Mixture of Experts with Attention Router](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.17976)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.17976](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.17976)

**Authors**: Shaohua Wu, Jiangang Luo, Xi Chen, Lingjun Li, Xudong Zhao, Tong Yu, Chao Wang, Yue Wang, Fei Wang, Weixu Qiao, Houbo He, Zeru Zhang, Zeyu Sun, Junxiong Mao, Chong Shen

**Published**: 2024-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ieit-yuan/yuan2.0-m32)

### Abstract

Yuan 2.0-M32, with a similar base architecture as Yuan-2.0 2B, uses a
mixture-of-experts architecture with 32 experts of which 2 experts are active.
A new router network, Attention Router, is proposed and adopted for a more
efficient selection of experts, which boosts the accuracy of 3.8% compared to
the model with classical router network. Yuan 2.0-M32 is trained with 2000B
tokens from scratch, and the training computation consumption is only 9.25% of
a dense model at the same parameter scale. Yuan 2.0-M32 demonstrates
competitive capability on coding, math, and various domains of expertise, with
only 3.7B active parameters of 40B in total, and 7.4 GFlops forward computation
per token, both of which are only 1/19 of Llama3-70B. Yuan 2.0-M32 surpass
Llama3-70B on MATH and ARC-Challenge benchmark, with accuracy of 55.89 and 95.8
respectively. The models and source codes of Yuan 2.0-M32 are released at
Github.

---

## 6. [GFlow: Recovering 4D World from Monocular Video](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18426)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18426](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18426)

**Authors**: Shizun Wang, Xingyi Yang, Qiuhong Shen, Zhenxiang Jiang, Xinchao Wang

**Published**: 2024-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Reconstructing 4D scenes from video inputs is a crucial yet challenging task.
Conventional methods usually rely on the assumptions of multi-view video
inputs, known camera parameters, or static scenes, all of which are typically
absent under in-the-wild scenarios. In this paper, we relax all these
constraints and tackle a highly ambitious but practical task, which we termed
as AnyV4D: we assume only one monocular video is available without any camera
parameters as input, and we aim to recover the dynamic 4D world alongside the
camera poses. To this end, we introduce GFlow, a new framework that utilizes
only 2D priors (depth and optical flow) to lift a video (3D) to a 4D explicit
representation, entailing a flow of Gaussian splatting through space and time.
GFlow first clusters the scene into still and moving parts, then applies a
sequential optimization process that optimizes camera poses and the dynamics of
3D Gaussian points based on 2D priors and scene clustering, ensuring fidelity
among neighboring points and smooth movement across frames. Since dynamic
scenes always introduce new content, we also propose a new pixel-wise
densification strategy for Gaussian points to integrate new visual content.
Moreover, GFlow transcends the boundaries of mere 4D reconstruction; it also
enables tracking of any points across frames without the need for prior
training and segments moving objects from the scene in an unsupervised way.
Additionally, the camera poses of each frame can be derived from GFlow,
allowing for rendering novel views of a video scene through changing camera
pose. By employing the explicit representation, we may readily conduct
scene-level or object-level editing as desired, underscoring its versatility
and power. Visit our project website at: https://littlepure2333.github.io/GFlow

---

## 7. [VeLoRA: Memory Efficient Training using Rank-1 Sub-Token Projections](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.17991)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.17991](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.17991)

**Authors**: Roy Miles, Pradyumna Reddy, Ismail Elezi, Jiankang Deng

**Published**: 2024-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/roymiles/VeLoRA)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have recently emerged as powerful tools for
tackling many language-processing tasks. Despite their success, training and
fine-tuning these models is still far too computationally and memory intensive.
In this paper, we identify and characterise the important components needed for
effective model convergence using gradient descent. In doing so we find that
the intermediate activations used to implement backpropagation can be
excessively compressed without incurring any degradation in performance. This
result leads us to a cheap and memory-efficient algorithm for both fine-tuning
and pre-training LLMs. The proposed algorithm simply divides the tokens up into
smaller sub-tokens before projecting them onto a fixed 1-dimensional subspace
during the forward pass. These features are then coarsely reconstructed during
the backward pass to implement the update rules. We confirm the effectiveness
of our algorithm as being complimentary to many state-of-the-art PEFT methods
on the VTAB-1k fine-tuning benchmark. Furthermore, we outperform QLoRA for
fine-tuning LLaMA and show competitive performance against other
memory-efficient pre-training methods on the large-scale C4 dataset.

---

## 8. [3DitScene: Editing Any Scene via Language-guided Disentangled Gaussian
  Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18424)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18424](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18424)

**Authors**: Qihang Zhang, Yinghao Xu, Chaoyang Wang, Hsin-Ying Lee, Gordon Wetzstein, Bolei Zhou, Ceyuan Yang

**Published**: 2024-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zqh0253/3DitScene)

### Abstract

Scene image editing is crucial for entertainment, photography, and
advertising design. Existing methods solely focus on either 2D individual
object or 3D global scene editing. This results in a lack of a unified approach
to effectively control and manipulate scenes at the 3D level with different
levels of granularity. In this work, we propose 3DitScene, a novel and unified
scene editing framework leveraging language-guided disentangled Gaussian
Splatting that enables seamless editing from 2D to 3D, allowing precise control
over scene composition and individual objects. We first incorporate 3D
Gaussians that are refined through generative priors and optimization
techniques. Language features from CLIP then introduce semantics into 3D
geometry for object disentanglement. With the disentangled Gaussians, 3DitScene
allows for manipulation at both the global and individual levels,
revolutionizing creative expression and empowering control over scenes and
objects. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and versatility of
3DitScene in scene image editing. Code and online demo can be found at our
project homepage: https://zqh0253.github.io/3DitScene/.

---
