# Daily Papers - 2024-05-20

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-05-20)

Total papers: 5

---

## 1. [INDUS: Effective and Efficient Language Models for Scientific
  Applications](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.10725)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.10725](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.10725)

**Authors**: Bishwaranjan Bhattacharjee, Aashka Trivedi, Masayasu Muraoka, Muthukumaran Ramasubramanian, Takuma Udagawa, Iksha Gurung, Rong Zhang, Bharath Dandala, Rahul Ramachandran, Manil Maskey, Kayleen Bugbee, Mike Little, Elizabeth Fancher, Lauren Sanders, Sylvain Costes, Sergi Blanco-Cuaresma, Kelly Lockhart, Thomas Allen, Felix Grazes, Megan Ansdel, Alberto Accomazzi, Yousef El-Kurdi, Davis Wertheimer, Birgit Pfitzmann, Cesar Berrospi Ramis, Michele Dolfi, Rafael Teixeira de Lima, Panos Vegenas, S. Karthik Mukkavilli, Peter Staar, Sanaz Vahidinia, Ryan McGranaghan, Armin Mehrabian, Tsendgar Lee

**Published**: 2024-05-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 35

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) trained on general domain corpora showed
remarkable results on natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However,
previous research demonstrated LLMs trained using domain-focused corpora
perform better on specialized tasks. Inspired by this pivotal insight, we
developed INDUS, a comprehensive suite of LLMs tailored for the Earth science,
biology, physics, heliophysics, planetary sciences and astrophysics domains and
trained using curated scientific corpora drawn from diverse data sources. The
suite of models include: (1) an encoder model trained using domain-specific
vocabulary and corpora to address natural language understanding tasks, (2) a
contrastive-learning-based general text embedding model trained using a diverse
set of datasets drawn from multiple sources to address information retrieval
tasks and (3) smaller versions of these models created using knowledge
distillation techniques to address applications which have latency or resource
constraints. We also created three new scientific benchmark datasets namely,
CLIMATE-CHANGE-NER (entity-recognition), NASA-QA (extractive QA) and NASA-IR
(IR) to accelerate research in these multi-disciplinary fields. Finally, we
show that our models outperform both general-purpose encoders (RoBERTa) and
existing domain-specific encoders (SciBERT) on these new tasks as well as
existing benchmark tasks in the domains of interest.

---

## 2. [Layer-Condensed KV Cache for Efficient Inference of Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.10637)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.10637](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.10637)

**Authors**: Haoyi Wu, Kewei Tu

**Published**: 2024-05-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/whyNLP/LCKV)

### Abstract

Huge memory consumption has been a major bottleneck for deploying
high-throughput large language models in real-world applications. In addition
to the large number of parameters, the key-value (KV) cache for the attention
mechanism in the transformer architecture consumes a significant amount of
memory, especially when the number of layers is large for deep language models.
In this paper, we propose a novel method that only computes and caches the KVs
of a small number of layers, thus significantly saving memory consumption and
improving inference throughput. Our experiments on large language models show
that our method achieves up to 26times higher throughput than standard
transformers and competitive performance in language modeling and downstream
tasks. In addition, our method is orthogonal to existing transformer
memory-saving techniques, so it is straightforward to integrate them with our
model, achieving further improvement in inference efficiency. Our code is
available at https://github.com/whyNLP/LCKV.

---

## 3. [Observational Scaling Laws and the Predictability of Language Model
  Performance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.10938)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.10938](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.10938)

**Authors**: Yangjun Ruan, Chris J. Maddison, Tatsunori Hashimoto

**Published**: 2024-05-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ryoungj/obsscaling)

### Abstract

Understanding how language model performance varies with scale is critical to
benchmark and algorithm development. Scaling laws are one approach to building
this understanding, but the requirement of training models across many
different scales has limited their use. We propose an alternative,
observational approach that bypasses model training and instead builds scaling
laws from ~80 publically available models. Building a single scaling law from
multiple model families is challenging due to large variations in their
training compute efficiencies and capabilities. However, we show that these
variations are consistent with a simple, generalized scaling law where language
model performance is a function of a low-dimensional capability space, and
model families only vary in their efficiency in converting training compute to
capabilities. Using this approach, we show the surprising predictability of
complex scaling phenomena: we show that several emergent phenomena follow a
smooth, sigmoidal behavior and are predictable from small models; we show that
the agent performance of models such as GPT-4 can be precisely predicted from
simpler non-agentic benchmarks; and we show how to predict the impact of
post-training interventions like Chain-of-Thought and Self-Consistency as
language model capabilities continue to improve.

---

## 4. [Grounded 3D-LLM with Referent Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.10370)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.10370](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.10370)

**Authors**: Yilun Chen, Shuai Yang, Haifeng Huang, Tai Wang, Ruiyuan Lyu, Runsen Xu, Dahua Lin, Jiangmiao Pang

**Published**: 2024-05-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OpenRobotLab/Grounded_3D-LLM)

### Abstract

Prior studies on 3D scene understanding have primarily developed specialized
models for specific tasks or required task-specific fine-tuning. In this study,
we propose Grounded 3D-LLM, which explores the potential of 3D large
multi-modal models (3D LMMs) to consolidate various 3D vision tasks within a
unified generative framework. The model uses scene referent tokens as special
noun phrases to reference 3D scenes, enabling the handling of sequences that
interleave 3D and textual data. It offers a natural approach for translating 3D
vision tasks into language formats using task-specific instruction templates.
To facilitate the use of referent tokens in subsequent language modeling, we
have curated large-scale grounded language datasets that offer finer scene-text
correspondence at the phrase level by bootstrapping existing object labels.
Subsequently, we introduced Contrastive LAnguage-Scene Pre-training (CLASP) to
effectively leverage this data, thereby integrating 3D vision with language
models. Our comprehensive evaluation covers open-ended tasks like dense
captioning and 3D QA, alongside close-ended tasks such as object detection and
language grounding. Experiments across multiple 3D benchmarks reveal the
leading performance and the broad applicability of Grounded 3D-LLM. Code and
datasets will be released on the project page:
https://groundedscenellm.github.io/grounded_3d-llm.github.io.

---

## 5. [Dynamic data sampler for cross-language transfer learning in large
  language models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.10626)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.10626](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.10626)

**Authors**: Yudong Li, Yuhao Feng, Wen Zhou, Zhe Zhao, Linlin Shen, Cheng Hou, Xianxu Hou

**Published**: 2024-05-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/cvi-szu/linly)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have gained significant attention in the field
of natural language processing (NLP) due to their wide range of applications.
However, training LLMs for languages other than English poses significant
challenges, due to the difficulty in acquiring large-scale corpus and the
requisite computing resources. In this paper, we propose ChatFlow, a
cross-language transfer-based LLM, to address these challenges and train large
Chinese language models in a cost-effective manner. We employ a mix of Chinese,
English, and parallel corpus to continuously train the LLaMA2 model, aiming to
align cross-language representations and facilitate the knowledge transfer
specifically to the Chinese language model. In addition, we use a dynamic data
sampler to progressively transition the model from unsupervised pre-training to
supervised fine-tuning. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach
accelerates model convergence and achieves superior performance. We evaluate
ChatFlow on popular Chinese and English benchmarks, the results indicate that
it outperforms other Chinese models post-trained on LLaMA-2-7B.

---
