# Daily Papers - 2024-05-22

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-05-22)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [Your Transformer is Secretly Linear](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.12250)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.12250](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12250)

**Authors**: Anton Razzhigaev, Matvey Mikhalchuk, Elizaveta Goncharova, Nikolai Gerasimenko, Ivan Oseledets, Denis Dimitrov, Andrey Kuznetsov

**Published**: 2024-05-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 157

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/AIRI-Institute/LLM-Microscope)

### Abstract

This paper reveals a novel linear characteristic exclusive to transformer
decoders, including models such as GPT, LLaMA, OPT, BLOOM and others. We
analyze embedding transformations between sequential layers, uncovering a
near-perfect linear relationship (Procrustes similarity score of 0.99).
However, linearity decreases when the residual component is removed due to a
consistently low output norm of the transformer layer. Our experiments show
that removing or linearly approximating some of the most linear blocks of
transformers does not affect significantly the loss or model performance.
Moreover, in our pretraining experiments on smaller models we introduce a
cosine-similarity-based regularization, aimed at reducing layer linearity. This
regularization improves performance metrics on benchmarks like Tiny Stories and
SuperGLUE and as well successfully decreases the linearity of the models. This
study challenges the existing understanding of transformer architectures,
suggesting that their operation may be more linear than previously assumed.

---

## 2. [Reducing Transformer Key-Value Cache Size with Cross-Layer Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.12981)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.12981](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12981)

**Authors**: William Brandon, Mayank Mishra, Aniruddha Nrusimha, Rameswar Panda, Jonathan Ragan Kelly

**Published**: 2024-05-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

Key-value (KV) caching plays an essential role in accelerating decoding for
transformer-based autoregressive large language models (LLMs). However, the
amount of memory required to store the KV cache can become prohibitive at long
sequence lengths and large batch sizes. Since the invention of the transformer,
two of the most effective interventions discovered for reducing the size of the
KV cache have been Multi-Query Attention (MQA) and its generalization,
Grouped-Query Attention (GQA). MQA and GQA both modify the design of the
attention block so that multiple query heads can share a single key/value head,
reducing the number of distinct key/value heads by a large factor while only
minimally degrading accuracy. In this paper, we show that it is possible to
take Multi-Query Attention a step further by also sharing key and value heads
between adjacent layers, yielding a new attention design we call Cross-Layer
Attention (CLA). With CLA, we find that it is possible to reduce the size of
the KV cache by another 2x while maintaining nearly the same accuracy as
unmodified MQA. In experiments training 1B- and 3B-parameter models from
scratch, we demonstrate that CLA provides a Pareto improvement over the
memory/accuracy tradeoffs which are possible with traditional MQA, enabling
inference with longer sequence lengths and larger batch sizes than would
otherwise be possible

---

## 3. [Diffusion for World Modeling: Visual Details Matter in Atari](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.12399)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.12399](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12399)

**Authors**: Eloi Alonso, Adam Jelley, Vincent Micheli, Anssi Kanervisto, Amos Storkey, Tim Pearce, François Fleuret

**Published**: 2024-05-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/eloialonso/diamond)

### Abstract

World models constitute a promising approach for training reinforcement
learning agents in a safe and sample-efficient manner. Recent world models
predominantly operate on sequences of discrete latent variables to model
environment dynamics. However, this compression into a compact discrete
representation may ignore visual details that are important for reinforcement
learning. Concurrently, diffusion models have become a dominant approach for
image generation, challenging well-established methods modeling discrete
latents. Motivated by this paradigm shift, we introduce DIAMOND (DIffusion As a
Model Of eNvironment Dreams), a reinforcement learning agent trained in a
diffusion world model. We analyze the key design choices that are required to
make diffusion suitable for world modeling, and demonstrate how improved visual
details can lead to improved agent performance. DIAMOND achieves a mean human
normalized score of 1.46 on the competitive Atari 100k benchmark; a new best
for agents trained entirely within a world model. To foster future research on
diffusion for world modeling, we release our code, agents and playable world
models at https://github.com/eloialonso/diamond.

---

## 4. [Face Adapter for Pre-Trained Diffusion Models with Fine-Grained ID and
  Attribute Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.12970)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.12970](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12970)

**Authors**: Yue Han, Junwei Zhu, Keke He, Xu Chen, Yanhao Ge, Wei Li, Xiangtai Li, Jiangning Zhang, Chengjie Wang, Yong Liu

**Published**: 2024-05-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

Current face reenactment and swapping methods mainly rely on GAN frameworks,
but recent focus has shifted to pre-trained diffusion models for their superior
generation capabilities. However, training these models is resource-intensive,
and the results have not yet achieved satisfactory performance levels. To
address this issue, we introduce Face-Adapter, an efficient and effective
adapter designed for high-precision and high-fidelity face editing for
pre-trained diffusion models. We observe that both face reenactment/swapping
tasks essentially involve combinations of target structure, ID and attribute.
We aim to sufficiently decouple the control of these factors to achieve both
tasks in one model. Specifically, our method contains: 1) A Spatial Condition
Generator that provides precise landmarks and background; 2) A Plug-and-play
Identity Encoder that transfers face embeddings to the text space by a
transformer decoder. 3) An Attribute Controller that integrates spatial
conditions and detailed attributes. Face-Adapter achieves comparable or even
superior performance in terms of motion control precision, ID retention
capability, and generation quality compared to fully fine-tuned face
reenactment/swapping models. Additionally, Face-Adapter seamlessly integrates
with various StableDiffusion models.

---

## 5. [OmniGlue: Generalizable Feature Matching with Foundation Model Guidance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.12979)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.12979](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12979)

**Authors**: Hanwen Jiang, Arjun Karpur, Bingyi Cao, Qixing Huang, Andre Araujo

**Published**: 2024-05-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-research/omniglue)

### Abstract

The image matching field has been witnessing a continuous emergence of novel
learnable feature matching techniques, with ever-improving performance on
conventional benchmarks. However, our investigation shows that despite these
gains, their potential for real-world applications is restricted by their
limited generalization capabilities to novel image domains. In this paper, we
introduce OmniGlue, the first learnable image matcher that is designed with
generalization as a core principle. OmniGlue leverages broad knowledge from a
vision foundation model to guide the feature matching process, boosting
generalization to domains not seen at training time. Additionally, we propose a
novel keypoint position-guided attention mechanism which disentangles spatial
and appearance information, leading to enhanced matching descriptors. We
perform comprehensive experiments on a suite of 7 datasets with varied image
domains, including scene-level, object-centric and aerial images. OmniGlue's
novel components lead to relative gains on unseen domains of 20.9% with
respect to a directly comparable reference model, while also outperforming the
recent LightGlue method by 9.5% relatively.Code and model can be found at
https://hwjiang1510.github.io/OmniGlue

---

## 6. [Personalized Residuals for Concept-Driven Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.12978)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.12978](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12978)

**Authors**: Cusuh Ham, Matthew Fisher, James Hays, Nicholas Kolkin, Yuchen Liu, Richard Zhang, Tobias Hinz

**Published**: 2024-05-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

We present personalized residuals and localized attention-guided sampling for
efficient concept-driven generation using text-to-image diffusion models. Our
method first represents concepts by freezing the weights of a pretrained
text-conditioned diffusion model and learning low-rank residuals for a small
subset of the model's layers. The residual-based approach then directly enables
application of our proposed sampling technique, which applies the learned
residuals only in areas where the concept is localized via cross-attention and
applies the original diffusion weights in all other regions. Localized sampling
therefore combines the learned identity of the concept with the existing
generative prior of the underlying diffusion model. We show that personalized
residuals effectively capture the identity of a concept in ~3 minutes on a
single GPU without the use of regularization images and with fewer parameters
than previous models, and localized sampling allows using the original model as
strong prior for large parts of the image.

---
