# Daily Papers - 2024-05-14

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-05-14)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [What matters when building vision-language models?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.02246)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.02246](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.02246)

**Authors**: Hugo Laurençon, Léo Tronchon, Matthieu Cord, Victor Sanh

**Published**: 2024-05-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 103

### Abstract

The growing interest in vision-language models (VLMs) has been driven by
improvements in large language models and vision transformers. Despite the
abundance of literature on this subject, we observe that critical decisions
regarding the design of VLMs are often not justified. We argue that these
unsupported decisions impede progress in the field by making it difficult to
identify which choices improve model performance. To address this issue, we
conduct extensive experiments around pre-trained models, architecture choice,
data, and training methods. Our consolidation of findings includes the
development of Idefics2, an efficient foundational VLM of 8 billion parameters.
Idefics2 achieves state-of-the-art performance within its size category across
various multimodal benchmarks, and is often on par with models four times its
size. We release the model (base, instructed, and chat) along with the datasets
created for its training.

---

## 2. [RLHF Workflow: From Reward Modeling to Online RLHF](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.07863)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.07863](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07863)

**Authors**: Hanze Dong, Wei Xiong, Bo Pang, Haoxiang Wang, Han Zhao, Yingbo Zhou, Nan Jiang, Doyen Sahoo, Caiming Xiong, Tong Zhang

**Published**: 2024-05-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 71

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/rlhflow/online-rlhf)

### Abstract

We present the workflow of Online Iterative Reinforcement Learning from Human
Feedback (RLHF) in this technical report, which is widely reported to
outperform its offline counterpart by a large margin in the recent large
language model (LLM) literature. However, existing open-source RLHF projects
are still largely confined to the offline learning setting. In this technical
report, we aim to fill in this gap and provide a detailed recipe that is easy
to reproduce for online iterative RLHF. In particular, since online human
feedback is usually infeasible for open-source communities with limited
resources, we start by constructing preference models using a diverse set of
open-source datasets and use the constructed proxy preference model to
approximate human feedback. Then, we discuss the theoretical insights and
algorithmic principles behind online iterative RLHF, followed by a detailed
practical implementation. Our trained LLM, SFR-Iterative-DPO-LLaMA-3-8B-R,
achieves impressive performance on LLM chatbot benchmarks, including
AlpacaEval-2, Arena-Hard, and MT-Bench, as well as other academic benchmarks
such as HumanEval and TruthfulQA. We have shown that supervised fine-tuning
(SFT) and iterative RLHF can obtain state-of-the-art performance with fully
open-source datasets. Further, we have made our models, curated datasets, and
comprehensive step-by-step code guidebooks publicly available. Please refer to
https://github.com/RLHFlow/RLHF-Reward-Modeling and
https://github.com/RLHFlow/Online-RLHF for more detailed information.

---

## 3. [SUTRA: Scalable Multilingual Language Model Architecture](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.06694)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.06694](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06694)

**Authors**: Abhijit Bendale, Michael Sapienza, Steven Ripplinger, Simon Gibbs, Jaewon Lee, Pranav Mistry

**Published**: 2024-05-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 38

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce SUTRA, multilingual Large Language Model
architecture capable of understanding, reasoning, and generating text in over
50 languages. SUTRA's design uniquely decouples core conceptual understanding
from language-specific processing, which facilitates scalable and efficient
multilingual alignment and learning. Employing a Mixture of Experts framework
both in language and concept processing, SUTRA demonstrates both computational
efficiency and responsiveness. Through extensive evaluations, SUTRA is
demonstrated to surpass existing models like GPT-3.5, Llama2 by 20-30% on
leading Massive Multitask Language Understanding (MMLU) benchmarks for
multilingual tasks. SUTRA models are also online LLMs that can use knowledge
from the internet to provide hallucination-free, factual and up-to-date
responses while retaining their multilingual capabilities. Furthermore, we
explore the broader implications of its architecture for the future of
multilingual AI, highlighting its potential to democratize access to AI
technology globally and to improve the equity and utility of AI in regions with
predominantly non-English languages. Our findings suggest that SUTRA not only
fills pivotal gaps in multilingual model capabilities but also establishes a
new benchmark for operational efficiency and scalability in AI applications.

---

## 4. [SambaNova SN40L: Scaling the AI Memory Wall with Dataflow and
  Composition of Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.07518)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.07518](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07518)

**Authors**: Raghu Prabhakar, Ram Sivaramakrishnan, Darshan Gandhi, Yun Du, Mingran Wang, Xiangyu Song, Kejie Zhang, Tianren Gao, Angela Wang, Karen Li, Yongning Sheng, Joshua Brot, Denis Sokolov, Apurv Vivek, Calvin Leung, Arjun Sabnis, Jiayu Bai, Tuowen Zhao, Mark Gottscho, David Jackson, Mark Luttrell, Manish K. Shah, Edison Chen, Kaizhao Liang, Swayambhoo Jain, Urmish Thakker, Dawei Huang, Sumti Jairath, Kevin J. Brown, Kunle Olukotun

**Published**: 2024-05-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

Monolithic large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4 have paved the way for
modern generative AI applications. Training, serving, and maintaining
monolithic LLMs at scale, however, remains prohibitively expensive and
challenging. The disproportionate increase in compute-to-memory ratio of modern
AI accelerators have created a memory wall, necessitating new methods to deploy
AI. Composition of Experts (CoE) is an alternative modular approach that lowers
the cost and complexity of training and serving. However, this approach
presents two key challenges when using conventional hardware: (1) without fused
operations, smaller models have lower operational intensity, which makes high
utilization more challenging to achieve; and (2) hosting a large number of
models can be either prohibitively expensive or slow when dynamically switching
between them.
  In this paper, we describe how combining CoE, streaming dataflow, and a
three-tier memory system scales the AI memory wall. We describe Samba-CoE, a
CoE system with 150 experts and a trillion total parameters. We deploy
Samba-CoE on the SambaNova SN40L Reconfigurable Dataflow Unit (RDU) - a
commercial dataflow accelerator architecture that has been co-designed for
enterprise inference and training applications. The chip introduces a new
three-tier memory system with on-chip distributed SRAM, on-package HBM, and
off-package DDR DRAM. A dedicated inter-RDU network enables scaling up and out
over multiple sockets. We demonstrate speedups ranging from 2x to 13x on
various benchmarks running on eight RDU sockets compared with an unfused
baseline. We show that for CoE inference deployments, the 8-socket RDU Node
reduces machine footprint by up to 19x, speeds up model switching time by 15x
to 31x, and achieves an overall speedup of 3.7x over a DGX H100 and 6.6x over a
DGX A100.

---

## 5. [MS MARCO Web Search: a Large-scale Information-rich Web Dataset with
  Millions of Real Click Labels](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.07526)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.07526](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07526)

**Authors**: Qi Chen, Xiubo Geng, Corby Rosset, Carolyn Buractaon, Jingwen Lu, Tao Shen, Kun Zhou, Chenyan Xiong, Yeyun Gong, Paul Bennett, Nick Craswell, Xing Xie, Fan Yang, Bryan Tower, Nikhil Rao, Anlei Dong, Wenqi Jiang, Zheng Liu, Mingqin Li, Chuanjie Liu, Zengzhong Li, Rangan Majumder, Jennifer Neville, Andy Oakley, Knut Magne Risvik, Harsha Vardhan Simhadri, Manik Varma, Yujing Wang, Linjun Yang, Mao Yang, Ce Zhang

**Published**: 2024-05-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/ms-marco-web-search)

### Abstract

Recent breakthroughs in large models have highlighted the critical
significance of data scale, labels and modals. In this paper, we introduce MS
MARCO Web Search, the first large-scale information-rich web dataset, featuring
millions of real clicked query-document labels. This dataset closely mimics
real-world web document and query distribution, provides rich information for
various kinds of downstream tasks and encourages research in various areas,
such as generic end-to-end neural indexer models, generic embedding models, and
next generation information access system with large language models. MS MARCO
Web Search offers a retrieval benchmark with three web retrieval challenge
tasks that demand innovations in both machine learning and information
retrieval system research domains. As the first dataset that meets large, real
and rich data requirements, MS MARCO Web Search paves the way for future
advancements in AI and system research. MS MARCO Web Search dataset is
available at: https://github.com/microsoft/MS-MARCO-Web-Search.

---

## 6. [Plot2Code: A Comprehensive Benchmark for Evaluating Multi-modal Large
  Language Models in Code Generation from Scientific Plots](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.07990)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.07990](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07990)

**Authors**: Chengyue Wu, Yixiao Ge, Qiushan Guo, Jiahao Wang, Zhixuan Liang, Zeyu Lu, Ying Shan, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2024-05-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/TencentARC/Plot2Code)

### Abstract

The remarkable progress of Multi-modal Large Language Models (MLLMs) has
attracted significant attention due to their superior performance in visual
contexts. However, their capabilities in turning visual figure to executable
code, have not been evaluated thoroughly. To address this, we introduce
Plot2Code, a comprehensive visual coding benchmark designed for a fair and
in-depth assessment of MLLMs. We carefully collect 132 manually selected
high-quality matplotlib plots across six plot types from publicly available
matplotlib galleries. For each plot, we carefully offer its source code, and an
descriptive instruction summarized by GPT-4. This approach enables Plot2Code to
extensively evaluate MLLMs' code capabilities across various input modalities.
Furthermore, we propose three automatic evaluation metrics, including code pass
rate, text-match ratio, and GPT-4V overall rating, for a fine-grained
assessment of the output code and rendered images. Instead of simply judging
pass or fail, we employ GPT-4V to make an overall judgement between the
generated and reference images, which has been shown to be consistent with
human evaluation. The evaluation results, which include analyses of 14 MLLMs
such as the proprietary GPT-4V, Gemini-Pro, and the open-sourced Mini-Gemini,
highlight the substantial challenges presented by Plot2Code. With Plot2Code, we
reveal that most existing MLLMs struggle with visual coding for text-dense
plots, heavily relying on textual instruction. We hope that the evaluation
results from Plot2Code on visual coding will guide the future development of
MLLMs. All data involved with Plot2Code are available at
https://huggingface.co/datasets/TencentARC/Plot2Code.

---

## 7. [Piccolo2: General Text Embedding with Multi-task Hybrid Loss Training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.06932)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.06932](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06932)

**Authors**: Junqin Huang, Zhongjie Hu, Zihao Jing, Mengya Gao, Yichao Wu

**Published**: 2024-05-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hjq133/piccolo-embedding)

### Abstract

In this report, we introduce Piccolo2, an embedding model that surpasses
other models in the comprehensive evaluation over 6 tasks on CMTEB benchmark,
setting a new state-of-the-art. Piccolo2 primarily leverages an efficient
multi-task hybrid loss training approach, effectively harnessing textual data
and labels from diverse downstream tasks. In addition, Piccolo2 scales up the
embedding dimension and uses MRL training to support more flexible vector
dimensions. The latest information of piccolo models can be accessed via:
https://huggingface.co/sensenova/

---

## 8. [LogoMotion: Visually Grounded Code Generation for Content-Aware
  Animation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.07065)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.07065](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07065)

**Authors**: Vivian Liu, Rubaiat Habib Kazi, Li-Yi Wei, Matthew Fisher, Timothy Langlois, Seth Walker, Lydia Chilton

**Published**: 2024-05-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Animated logos are a compelling and ubiquitous way individuals and brands
represent themselves online. Manually authoring these logos can require
significant artistic skill and effort. To help novice designers animate logos,
design tools currently offer templates and animation presets. However, these
solutions can be limited in their expressive range. Large language models have
the potential to help novice designers create animated logos by generating
animation code that is tailored to their content. In this paper, we introduce
LogoMotion, an LLM-based system that takes in a layered document and generates
animated logos through visually-grounded program synthesis. We introduce
techniques to create an HTML representation of a canvas, identify primary and
secondary elements, synthesize animation code, and visually debug animation
errors. When compared with an industry standard tool, we find that LogoMotion
produces animations that are more content-aware and are on par in terms of
quality. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of LLM-generated
animation for motion design.

---

## 9. [Large Language Models as Planning Domain Generators](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.06650)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.06650](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06650)

**Authors**: James Oswald, Kavitha Srinivas, Harsha Kokel, Junkyu Lee, Michael Katz, Shirin Sohrabi

**Published**: 2024-04-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/IBM/NL2PDDL)

### Abstract

Developing domain models is one of the few remaining places that require
manual human labor in AI planning. Thus, in order to make planning more
accessible, it is desirable to automate the process of domain model generation.
To this end, we investigate if large language models (LLMs) can be used to
generate planning domain models from simple textual descriptions. Specifically,
we introduce a framework for automated evaluation of LLM-generated domains by
comparing the sets of plans for domain instances. Finally, we perform an
empirical analysis of 7 large language models, including coding and chat models
across 9 different planning domains, and under three classes of natural
language domain descriptions. Our results indicate that LLMs, particularly
those with high parameter counts, exhibit a moderate level of proficiency in
generating correct planning domains from natural language descriptions. Our
code is available at https://github.com/IBM/NL2PDDL.

---
