# Daily Papers - 2024-05-01

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-05-01)

Total papers: 14

---

## 1. [Octopus v4: Graph of language models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19296)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19296](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19296)

**Authors**: Wei Chen, Zhiyuan Li

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 118

### Abstract

Language models have been effective in a wide range of applications, yet the
most sophisticated models are often proprietary. For example, GPT-4 by OpenAI
and various models by Anthropic are expensive and consume substantial energy.
In contrast, the open-source community has produced competitive models, like
Llama3. Furthermore, niche-specific smaller language models, such as those
tailored for legal, medical or financial tasks, have outperformed their
proprietary counterparts. This paper introduces a novel approach that employs
functional tokens to integrate multiple open-source models,
each optimized for particular tasks. Our newly developed Octopus v4 model
leverages functional tokens to intelligently direct user queries to
the most appropriate vertical model and reformat the query to achieve the best
performance. Octopus v4, an evolution of the Octopus v1, v2, and v3 models,
excels in selection and parameter understanding and reformatting. Additionally,
we explore the use of graph as a versatile data structure that effectively
coordinates multiple open-source models by harnessing the capabilities of the
Octopus model and functional tokens. Use our open-sourced GitHub
(https://www.nexa4ai.com/) to try Octopus v4 models
(https://huggingface.co/NexaAIDev/Octopus-v4), and contrite to a larger
graph of language models. By activating models less than 10B parameters, we
achieved SOTA MMLU score of 74.8 among the same level models.

---

## 2. [KAN: Kolmogorov-Arnold Networks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19756)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19756](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19756)

**Authors**: Ziming Liu, Yixuan Wang, Sachin Vaidya, James Halverson, Marin Soljačić, Thomas Y. Hou, Max Tegmark

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 116

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kindxiaoming/pykan)

### Abstract

Inspired by the Kolmogorov-Arnold representation theorem, we propose
Kolmogorov-Arnold Networks (KANs) as promising alternatives to Multi-Layer
Perceptrons (MLPs). While MLPs have fixed activation functions on nodes
("neurons"), KANs have learnable activation functions on edges ("weights").
KANs have no linear weights at all -- every weight parameter is replaced by a
univariate function parametrized as a spline. We show that this seemingly
simple change makes KANs outperform MLPs in terms of accuracy and
interpretability. For accuracy, much smaller KANs can achieve comparable or
better accuracy than much larger MLPs in data fitting and PDE solving.
Theoretically and empirically, KANs possess faster neural scaling laws than
MLPs. For interpretability, KANs can be intuitively visualized and can easily
interact with human users. Through two examples in mathematics and physics,
KANs are shown to be useful collaborators helping scientists (re)discover
mathematical and physical laws. In summary, KANs are promising alternatives for
MLPs, opening opportunities for further improving today's deep learning models
which rely heavily on MLPs.

---

## 3. [Better & Faster Large Language Models via Multi-token Prediction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19737)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19737](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19737)

**Authors**: Fabian Gloeckle, Badr Youbi Idrissi, Baptiste Rozière, David Lopez-Paz, Gabriel Synnaeve

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 81

### Abstract

Large language models such as GPT and Llama are trained with a next-token
prediction loss. In this work, we suggest that training language models to
predict multiple future tokens at once results in higher sample efficiency.
More specifically, at each position in the training corpus, we ask the model to
predict the following n tokens using n independent output heads, operating on
top of a shared model trunk. Considering multi-token prediction as an auxiliary
training task, we measure improved downstream capabilities with no overhead in
training time for both code and natural language models. The method is
increasingly useful for larger model sizes, and keeps its appeal when training
for multiple epochs. Gains are especially pronounced on generative benchmarks
like coding, where our models consistently outperform strong baselines by
several percentage points. Our 13B parameter models solves 12 % more problems
on HumanEval and 17 % more on MBPP than comparable next-token models.
Experiments on small algorithmic tasks demonstrate that multi-token prediction
is favorable for the development of induction heads and algorithmic reasoning
capabilities. As an additional benefit, models trained with 4-token prediction
are up to 3 times faster at inference, even with large batch sizes.

---

## 4. [InstantFamily: Masked Attention for Zero-shot Multi-ID Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19427)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19427](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19427)

**Authors**: Chanran Kim, Jeongin Lee, Shichang Joung, Bongmo Kim, Yeul-Min Baek

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 74

### Abstract

In the field of personalized image generation, the ability to create images
preserving concepts has significantly improved. Creating an image that
naturally integrates multiple concepts in a cohesive and visually appealing
composition can indeed be challenging. This paper introduces "InstantFamily,"
an approach that employs a novel masked cross-attention mechanism and a
multimodal embedding stack to achieve zero-shot multi-ID image generation. Our
method effectively preserves ID as it utilizes global and local features from a
pre-trained face recognition model integrated with text conditions.
Additionally, our masked cross-attention mechanism enables the precise control
of multi-ID and composition in the generated images. We demonstrate the
effectiveness of InstantFamily through experiments showing its dominance in
generating images with multi-ID, while resolving well-known multi-ID generation
problems. Additionally, our model achieves state-of-the-art performance in both
single-ID and multi-ID preservation. Furthermore, our model exhibits remarkable
scalability with a greater number of ID preservation than it was originally
trained with.

---

## 5. [Iterative Reasoning Preference Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19733)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19733](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19733)

**Authors**: Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Weizhe Yuan, Kyunghyun Cho, He He, Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Jason Weston

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 49

### Abstract

Iterative preference optimization methods have recently been shown to perform
well for general instruction tuning tasks, but typically make little
improvement on reasoning tasks (Yuan et al., 2024, Chen et al., 2024). In this
work we develop an iterative approach that optimizes the preference between
competing generated Chain-of-Thought (CoT) candidates by optimizing for winning
vs. losing reasoning steps that lead to the correct answer. We train using a
modified DPO loss (Rafailov et al., 2023) with an additional negative
log-likelihood term, which we find to be crucial. We show reasoning improves
across repeated iterations of this scheme. While only relying on examples in
the training set, our approach results in increasing accuracy for
Llama-2-70B-Chat from 55.6% to 81.6% on GSM8K (and 88.7% with majority voting
out of 32 samples), from 12.5% to 20.8% on MATH, and from 77.8% to 86.7% on
ARC-Challenge, which outperforms other Llama-2-based models not relying on
additionally sourced datasets.

---

## 6. [Extending Llama-3's Context Ten-Fold Overnight](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19553)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19553](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19553)

**Authors**: Peitian Zhang, Ninglu Shao, Zheng Liu, Shitao Xiao, Hongjin Qian, Qiwei Ye, Zhicheng Dou

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 34

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/flagopen/flagembedding)

### Abstract

We extend the context length of Llama-3-8B-Instruct from 8K to 80K via QLoRA
fine-tuning. The entire training cycle is super efficient, which takes 8 hours
on one 8xA800 (80G) GPU machine. The resulted model exhibits superior
performances across a broad range of evaluation tasks, such as NIHS, topic
retrieval, and long-context language understanding; meanwhile, it also well
preserves the original capability over short contexts. The dramatic context
extension is mainly attributed to merely 3.5K synthetic training samples
generated by GPT-4 , which indicates the LLMs' inherent (yet largely
underestimated) potential to extend its original context length. In fact, the
context length could be extended far beyond 80K with more computation
resources. Therefore, the team will publicly release the entire resources
(including data, model, data generation pipeline, training code) so as to
facilitate the future research from the community:
https://github.com/FlagOpen/FlagEmbedding.

---

## 7. [MotionLCM: Real-time Controllable Motion Generation via Latent
  Consistency Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19759)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19759](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19759)

**Authors**: Wenxun Dai, Ling-Hao Chen, Jingbo Wang, Jinpeng Liu, Bo Dai, Yansong Tang

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Dai-Wenxun/MotionLCM)

### Abstract

This work introduces MotionLCM, extending controllable motion generation to a
real-time level. Existing methods for spatial control in text-conditioned
motion generation suffer from significant runtime inefficiency. To address this
issue, we first propose the motion latent consistency model (MotionLCM) for
motion generation, building upon the latent diffusion model (MLD). By employing
one-step (or few-step) inference, we further improve the runtime efficiency of
the motion latent diffusion model for motion generation. To ensure effective
controllability, we incorporate a motion ControlNet within the latent space of
MotionLCM and enable explicit control signals (e.g., pelvis trajectory) in the
vanilla motion space to control the generation process directly, similar to
controlling other latent-free diffusion models for motion generation. By
employing these techniques, our approach can generate human motions with text
and control signals in real-time. Experimental results demonstrate the
remarkable generation and controlling capabilities of MotionLCM while
maintaining real-time runtime efficiency.

---

## 8. [Visual Fact Checker: Enabling High-Fidelity Detailed Caption Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19752)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19752](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19752)

**Authors**: Yunhao Ge, Xiaohui Zeng, Jacob Samuel Huffman, Tsung-Yi Lin, Ming-Yu Liu, Yin Cui

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

Existing automatic captioning methods for visual content face challenges such
as lack of detail, content hallucination, and poor instruction following. In
this work, we propose VisualFactChecker (VFC), a flexible training-free
pipeline that generates high-fidelity and detailed captions for both 2D images
and 3D objects. VFC consists of three steps: 1) proposal, where image-to-text
captioning models propose multiple initial captions; 2) verification, where a
large language model (LLM) utilizes tools such as object detection and VQA
models to fact-check proposed captions; 3) captioning, where an LLM generates
the final caption by summarizing caption proposals and the fact check
verification results. In this step, VFC can flexibly generate captions in
various styles following complex instructions. We conduct comprehensive
captioning evaluations using four metrics: 1) CLIP-Score for image-text
similarity; 2) CLIP-Image-Score for measuring the image-image similarity
between the original and the reconstructed image generated by a text-to-image
model using the caption. 3) human study on Amazon Mechanical Turk; 4) GPT-4V
for fine-grained evaluation. Evaluation results show that VFC outperforms
state-of-the-art open-sourced captioning methods for 2D images on the COCO
dataset and 3D assets on the Objaverse dataset. Our study demonstrates that by
combining open-source models into a pipeline, we can attain captioning
capability comparable to proprietary models such as GPT-4V, despite being over
10x smaller in model size.

---

## 9. [GS-LRM: Large Reconstruction Model for 3D Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19702)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19702](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19702)

**Authors**: Kai Zhang, Sai Bi, Hao Tan, Yuanbo Xiangli, Nanxuan Zhao, Kalyan Sunkavalli, Zexiang Xu

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

We propose GS-LRM, a scalable large reconstruction model that can predict
high-quality 3D Gaussian primitives from 2-4 posed sparse images in 0.23
seconds on single A100 GPU. Our model features a very simple transformer-based
architecture; we patchify input posed images, pass the concatenated multi-view
image tokens through a sequence of transformer blocks, and decode final
per-pixel Gaussian parameters directly from these tokens for differentiable
rendering. In contrast to previous LRMs that can only reconstruct objects, by
predicting per-pixel Gaussians, GS-LRM naturally handles scenes with large
variations in scale and complexity. We show that our model can work on both
object and scene captures by training it on Objaverse and RealEstate10K
respectively. In both scenarios, the models outperform state-of-the-art
baselines by a wide margin. We also demonstrate applications of our model in
downstream 3D generation tasks. Our project webpage is available at:
https://sai-bi.github.io/project/gs-lrm/ .

---

## 10. [SAGS: Structure-Aware 3D Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19149)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19149](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19149)

**Authors**: Evangelos Ververas, Rolandos Alexandros Potamias, Jifei Song, Jiankang Deng, Stefanos Zafeiriou

**Published**: 2024-04-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Following the advent of NeRFs, 3D Gaussian Splatting (3D-GS) has paved the
way to real-time neural rendering overcoming the computational burden of
volumetric methods. Following the pioneering work of 3D-GS, several methods
have attempted to achieve compressible and high-fidelity performance
alternatives. However, by employing a geometry-agnostic optimization scheme,
these methods neglect the inherent 3D structure of the scene, thereby
restricting the expressivity and the quality of the representation, resulting
in various floating points and artifacts. In this work, we propose a
structure-aware Gaussian Splatting method (SAGS) that implicitly encodes the
geometry of the scene, which reflects to state-of-the-art rendering performance
and reduced storage requirements on benchmark novel-view synthesis datasets.
SAGS is founded on a local-global graph representation that facilitates the
learning of complex scenes and enforces meaningful point displacements that
preserve the scene's geometry. Additionally, we introduce a lightweight version
of SAGS, using a simple yet effective mid-point interpolation scheme, which
showcases a compact representation of the scene with up to 24times size
reduction without the reliance on any compression strategies. Extensive
experiments across multiple benchmark datasets demonstrate the superiority of
SAGS compared to state-of-the-art 3D-GS methods under both rendering quality
and model size. Besides, we demonstrate that our structure-aware method can
effectively mitigate floating artifacts and irregular distortions of previous
methods while obtaining precise depth maps. Project page
https://eververas.github.io/SAGS/.

---

## 11. [DOCCI: Descriptions of Connected and Contrasting Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19753)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19753](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19753)

**Authors**: Yasumasa Onoe, Sunayana Rane, Zachary Berger, Yonatan Bitton, Jaemin Cho, Roopal Garg, Alexander Ku, Zarana Parekh, Jordi Pont-Tuset, Garrett Tanzer, Su Wang, Jason Baldridge

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Vision-language datasets are vital for both text-to-image (T2I) and
image-to-text (I2T) research. However, current datasets lack descriptions with
fine-grained detail that would allow for richer associations to be learned by
models. To fill the gap, we introduce Descriptions of Connected and Contrasting
Images (DOCCI), a dataset with long, human-annotated English descriptions for
15k images that were taken, curated and donated by a single researcher intent
on capturing key challenges such as spatial relations, counting, text
rendering, world knowledge, and more. We instruct human annotators to create
comprehensive descriptions for each image; these average 136 words in length
and are crafted to clearly distinguish each image from those that are related
or similar. Each description is highly compositional and typically encompasses
multiple challenges. Through both quantitative and qualitative analyses, we
demonstrate that DOCCI serves as an effective training resource for
image-to-text generation -- a PaLI 5B model finetuned on DOCCI shows equal or
superior results compared to highly-performant larger models like LLaVA-1.5 7B
and InstructBLIP 7B. Furthermore, we show that DOCCI is a useful testbed for
text-to-image generation, highlighting the limitations of current text-to-image
models in capturing long descriptions and fine details.

---

## 12. [Invisible Stitch: Generating Smooth 3D Scenes with Depth Inpainting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19758)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19758](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19758)

**Authors**: Paul Engstler, Andrea Vedaldi, Iro Laina, Christian Rupprecht

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/paulengstler/invisible-stitch)

### Abstract

3D scene generation has quickly become a challenging new research direction,
fueled by consistent improvements of 2D generative diffusion models. Most prior
work in this area generates scenes by iteratively stitching newly generated
frames with existing geometry. These works often depend on pre-trained
monocular depth estimators to lift the generated images into 3D, fusing them
with the existing scene representation. These approaches are then often
evaluated via a text metric, measuring the similarity between the generated
images and a given text prompt. In this work, we make two fundamental
contributions to the field of 3D scene generation. First, we note that lifting
images to 3D with a monocular depth estimation model is suboptimal as it
ignores the geometry of the existing scene. We thus introduce a novel depth
completion model, trained via teacher distillation and self-training to learn
the 3D fusion process, resulting in improved geometric coherence of the scene.
Second, we introduce a new benchmarking scheme for scene generation methods
that is based on ground truth geometry, and thus measures the quality of the
structure of the scene.

---

## 13. [MicroDreamer: Zero-shot 3D Generation in sim20 Seconds by Score-based
  Iterative Reconstruction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19525)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19525](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19525)

**Authors**: Luxi Chen, Zhengyi Wang, Chongxuan Li, Tingting Gao, Hang Su, Jun Zhu

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ml-gsai/microdreamer)

### Abstract

Optimization-based approaches, such as score distillation sampling (SDS),
show promise in zero-shot 3D generation but suffer from low efficiency,
primarily due to the high number of function evaluations (NFEs) required for
each sample. In this paper, we introduce score-based iterative reconstruction
(SIR), an efficient and general algorithm for 3D generation with a multi-view
score-based diffusion model. Given the images produced by the diffusion model,
SIR reduces NFEs by repeatedly optimizing 3D parameters, unlike the single
optimization in SDS, mimicking the 3D reconstruction process. With other
improvements including optimization in the pixel space, we present an efficient
approach called MicroDreamer that generally applies to various 3D
representations and 3D generation tasks. In particular, retaining a comparable
performance, MicroDreamer is 5-20 times faster than SDS in generating neural
radiance field and takes about 20 seconds to generate meshes from 3D Gaussian
splitting on a single A100 GPU, halving the time of the fastest zero-shot
baseline, DreamGaussian. Our code is available at
https://github.com/ML-GSAI/MicroDreamer.

---

## 14. [Lightplane: Highly-Scalable Components for Neural 3D Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.19760)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.19760](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19760)

**Authors**: Ang Cao, Justin Johnson, Andrea Vedaldi, David Novotny

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/lightplane)

### Abstract

Contemporary 3D research, particularly in reconstruction and generation,
heavily relies on 2D images for inputs or supervision. However, current designs
for these 2D-3D mapping are memory-intensive, posing a significant bottleneck
for existing methods and hindering new applications. In response, we propose a
pair of highly scalable components for 3D neural fields: Lightplane Render and
Splatter, which significantly reduce memory usage in 2D-3D mapping. These
innovations enable the processing of vastly more and higher resolution images
with small memory and computational costs. We demonstrate their utility in
various applications, from benefiting single-scene optimization with
image-level losses to realizing a versatile pipeline for dramatically scaling
3D reconstruction and generation. Code:
https://github.com/facebookresearch/lightplane.

---
