# Daily Papers - 2024-05-02

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-05-02)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [A Careful Examination of Large Language Model Performance on Grade
  School Arithmetic](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.00332)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.00332](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00332)

**Authors**: Hugh Zhang, Jeff Da, Dean Lee, Vaughn Robinson, Catherine Wu, Will Song, Tiffany Zhao, Pranav Raja, Dylan Slack, Qin Lyu, Sean Hendryx, Russell Kaplan, Michele, Lunati, Summer Yue

**Published**: 2024-05-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have achieved impressive success on many
benchmarks for mathematical reasoning. However, there is growing concern that
some of this performance actually reflects dataset contamination, where data
closely resembling benchmark questions leaks into the training data, instead of
true reasoning ability. To investigate this claim rigorously, we commission
Grade School Math 1000 (GSM1k). GSM1k is designed to mirror the style and
complexity of the established GSM8k benchmark, the gold standard for measuring
elementary mathematical reasoning. We ensure that the two benchmarks are
comparable across important metrics such as human solve rates, number of steps
in solution, answer magnitude, and more. When evaluating leading open- and
closed-source LLMs on GSM1k, we observe accuracy drops of up to 13%, with
several families of models (e.g., Phi and Mistral) showing evidence of
systematic overfitting across almost all model sizes. At the same time, many
models, especially those on the frontier, (e.g., Gemini/GPT/Claude) show
minimal signs of overfitting. Further analysis suggests a positive relationship
(Spearman's r^2=0.32) between a model's probability of generating an example
from GSM8k and its performance gap between GSM8k and GSM1k, suggesting that
many models may have partially memorized GSM8k.

---

## 2. [Paint by Inpaint: Learning to Add Image Objects by Removing Them First](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.18212)

**ArXiv ID**: [2404.18212](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.18212)

**Authors**: Navve Wasserman, Noam Rotstein, Roy Ganz, Ron Kimmel

**Published**: 2024-04-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/RotsteinNoam/Paint-by-Inpaint) | [Project Page](https://rotsteinnoam.github.io/Paint-by-Inpaint/)

### Abstract

Image editing has advanced significantly with the introduction of
text-conditioned diffusion models. Despite this progress, seamlessly adding
objects to images based on textual instructions without requiring user-provided
input masks remains a challenge. We address this by leveraging the insight that
removing objects (Inpaint) is significantly simpler than its inverse process of
adding them (Paint), attributed to the utilization of segmentation mask
datasets alongside inpainting models that inpaint within these masks.
Capitalizing on this realization, by implementing an automated and extensive
pipeline, we curate a filtered large-scale image dataset containing pairs of
images and their corresponding object-removed versions. Using these pairs, we
train a diffusion model to inverse the inpainting process, effectively adding
objects into images. Unlike other editing datasets, ours features natural
target images instead of synthetic ones; moreover, it maintains consistency
between source and target by construction. Additionally, we utilize a large
Vision-Language Model to provide detailed descriptions of the removed objects
and a Large Language Model to convert these descriptions into diverse,
natural-language instructions. We show that the trained model surpasses
existing ones both qualitatively and quantitatively, and release the
large-scale dataset alongside the trained models for the community.

---

## 3. [Self-Play Preference Optimization for Language Model Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.00675)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.00675](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00675)

**Authors**: Yue Wu, Zhiqing Sun, Huizhuo Yuan, Kaixuan Ji, Yiming Yang, Quanquan Gu

**Published**: 2024-05-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/uclaml/sppo)

### Abstract

Traditional reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) approaches
relying on parametric models like the Bradley-Terry model fall short in
capturing the intransitivity and irrationality in human preferences. Recent
advancements suggest that directly working with preference probabilities can
yield a more accurate reflection of human preferences, enabling more flexible
and accurate language model alignment. In this paper, we propose a
self-play-based method for language model alignment, which treats the problem
as a constant-sum two-player game aimed at identifying the Nash equilibrium
policy. Our approach, dubbed Self-Play Preference Optimization (SPPO),
approximates the Nash equilibrium through iterative policy updates and enjoys
theoretical convergence guarantee. Our method can effectively increase the
log-likelihood of the chosen response and decrease that of the rejected
response, which cannot be trivially achieved by symmetric pairwise loss such as
Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) and Identity Preference Optimization
(IPO). In our experiments, using only 60k prompts (without responses) from the
UltraFeedback dataset and without any prompt augmentation, by leveraging a
pre-trained preference model PairRM with only 0.4B parameters, SPPO can obtain
a model from fine-tuning Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2 that achieves the
state-of-the-art length-controlled win-rate of 28.53% against GPT-4-Turbo on
AlpacaEval 2.0. It also outperforms the (iterative) DPO and IPO on MT-Bench and
the Open LLM Leaderboard. Notably, the strong performance of SPPO is achieved
without additional external supervision (e.g., responses, preferences, etc.)
from GPT-4 or other stronger language models.

---

## 4. [Is Bigger Edit Batch Size Always Better? -- An Empirical Study on Model
  Editing with Llama-3](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.00664)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.00664](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00664)

**Authors**: Junsang Yoon, Akshat Gupta, Gopala Anumanchipalli

**Published**: 2024-05-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/scalable-model-editing/unified-model-editing)

### Abstract

This study presents a targeted model editing analysis focused on the latest
large language model, Llama-3. We explore the efficacy of popular model editing
techniques - ROME, MEMIT, and EMMET, which are designed for precise layer
interventions. We identify the most effective layers for targeted edits through
an evaluation that encompasses up to 4096 edits across three distinct
strategies: sequential editing, batch editing, and a hybrid approach we call as
sequential-batch editing. Our findings indicate that increasing edit
batch-sizes may degrade model performance more significantly than using smaller
edit batches sequentially for equal number of edits. With this, we argue that
sequential model editing is an important component for scaling model editing
methods and future research should focus on methods that combine both batched
and sequential editing. This observation suggests a potential limitation in
current model editing methods which push towards bigger edit batch sizes, and
we hope it paves way for future investigations into optimizing batch sizes and
model editing performance.

---

## 5. [SemantiCodec: An Ultra Low Bitrate Semantic Audio Codec for General
  Sound](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.00233)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.00233](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00233)

**Authors**: Haohe Liu, Xuenan Xu, Yi Yuan, Mengyue Wu, Wenwu Wang, Mark D. Plumbley

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/haoheliu/SemantiCodec-inference)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have significantly advanced audio processing
through audio codecs that convert audio into discrete tokens, enabling the
application of language modelling techniques to audio data. However,
traditional codecs often operate at high bitrates or within narrow domains such
as speech and lack the semantic clues required for efficient language
modelling. Addressing these challenges, we introduce SemantiCodec, a novel
codec designed to compress audio into fewer than a hundred tokens per second
across diverse audio types, including speech, general audio, and music, without
compromising quality. SemantiCodec features a dual-encoder architecture: a
semantic encoder using a self-supervised AudioMAE, discretized using k-means
clustering on extensive audio data, and an acoustic encoder to capture the
remaining details. The semantic and acoustic encoder outputs are used to
reconstruct audio via a diffusion-model-based decoder. SemantiCodec is
presented in three variants with token rates of 25, 50, and 100 per second,
supporting a range of ultra-low bit rates between 0.31 kbps and 1.43 kbps.
Experimental results demonstrate that SemantiCodec significantly outperforms
the state-of-the-art Descript codec on reconstruction quality. Our results also
suggest that SemantiCodec contains significantly richer semantic information
than all evaluated audio codecs, even at significantly lower bitrates. Our code
and demos are available at https://haoheliu.github.io/SemantiCodec/.

---

## 6. [Clover: Regressive Lightweight Speculative Decoding with Sequential
  Knowledge](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.00263)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.00263](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00263)

**Authors**: Bin Xiao, Chunan Shi, Xiaonan Nie, Fan Yang, Xiangwei Deng, Lei Su, Bin Cui

**Published**: 2024-05-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) suffer from low efficiency as the mismatch
between the requirement of auto-regressive decoding and the design of most
contemporary GPUs. Specifically, billions to trillions of parameters must be
loaded to the GPU cache through its limited memory bandwidth for computation,
but only a small batch of tokens is actually computed. Consequently, the GPU
spends most of its time on memory transfer instead of computation. Recently,
parallel decoding, a type of speculative decoding algorithms, is becoming more
popular and has demonstrated impressive efficiency improvement in generation.
It introduces extra decoding heads to large models, enabling them to predict
multiple subsequent tokens simultaneously and verify these candidate
continuations in a single decoding step. However, this approach deviates from
the training objective of next token prediction used during pre-training,
resulting in a low hit rate for candidate tokens. In this paper, we propose a
new speculative decoding algorithm, Clover, which integrates sequential
knowledge into the parallel decoding process. This enhancement improves the hit
rate of speculators and thus boosts the overall efficiency. Clover transmits
the sequential knowledge from pre-speculated tokens via the Regressive
Connection, then employs an Attention Decoder to integrate these speculated
tokens. Additionally, Clover incorporates an Augmenting Block that modifies the
hidden states to better align with the purpose of speculative generation rather
than next token prediction. The experiment results demonstrate that Clover
outperforms the baseline by up to 91% on Baichuan-Small and 146% on
Baichuan-Large, respectively, and exceeds the performance of the previously
top-performing method, Medusa, by up to 37% on Baichuan-Small and 57% on
Baichuan-Large, respectively.

---

## 7. [Spectrally Pruned Gaussian Fields with Neural Compensation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.00676)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.00676](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00676)

**Authors**: Runyi Yang, Zhenxin Zhu, Zhou Jiang, Baijun Ye, Xiaoxue Chen, Yifei Zhang, Yuantao Chen, Jian Zhao, Hao Zhao

**Published**: 2024-05-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/runyiyang/sundae)

### Abstract

Recently, 3D Gaussian Splatting, as a novel 3D representation, has garnered
attention for its fast rendering speed and high rendering quality. However,
this comes with high memory consumption, e.g., a well-trained Gaussian field
may utilize three million Gaussian primitives and over 700 MB of memory. We
credit this high memory footprint to the lack of consideration for the
relationship between primitives. In this paper, we propose a memory-efficient
Gaussian field named SUNDAE with spectral pruning and neural compensation. On
one hand, we construct a graph on the set of Gaussian primitives to model their
relationship and design a spectral down-sampling module to prune out primitives
while preserving desired signals. On the other hand, to compensate for the
quality loss of pruning Gaussians, we exploit a lightweight neural network head
to mix splatted features, which effectively compensates for quality losses
while capturing the relationship between primitives in its weights. We
demonstrate the performance of SUNDAE with extensive results. For example,
SUNDAE can achieve 26.80 PSNR at 145 FPS using 104 MB memory while the vanilla
Gaussian splatting algorithm achieves 25.60 PSNR at 160 FPS using 523 MB
memory, on the Mip-NeRF360 dataset. Codes are publicly available at
https://runyiyang.github.io/projects/SUNDAE/.

---

## 8. [STT: Stateful Tracking with Transformers for Autonomous Driving](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.00236)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.00236](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00236)

**Authors**: Longlong Jing, Ruichi Yu, Xu Chen, Zhengli Zhao, Shiwei Sheng, Colin Graber, Qi Chen, Qinru Li, Shangxuan Wu, Han Deng, Sangjin Lee, Chris Sweeney, Qiurui He, Wei-Chih Hung, Tong He, Xingyi Zhou, Farshid Moussavi, Zijian Guo, Yin Zhou, Mingxing Tan, Weilong Yang, Congcong Li

**Published**: 2024-04-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Tracking objects in three-dimensional space is critical for autonomous
driving. To ensure safety while driving, the tracker must be able to reliably
track objects across frames and accurately estimate their states such as
velocity and acceleration in the present. Existing works frequently focus on
the association task while either neglecting the model performance on state
estimation or deploying complex heuristics to predict the states. In this
paper, we propose STT, a Stateful Tracking model built with Transformers, that
can consistently track objects in the scenes while also predicting their states
accurately. STT consumes rich appearance, geometry, and motion signals through
long term history of detections and is jointly optimized for both data
association and state estimation tasks. Since the standard tracking metrics
like MOTA and MOTP do not capture the combined performance of the two tasks in
the wider spectrum of object states, we extend them with new metrics called
S-MOTA and MOTPS that address this limitation. STT achieves competitive
real-time performance on the Waymo Open Dataset.

---

## 9. [Automatic Creative Selection with Cross-Modal Matching](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.00029)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.00029](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00029)

**Authors**: Alex Kim, Jia Huang, Rob Monarch, Jerry Kwac, Anikesh Kamath, Parmeshwar Khurd, Kailash Thiyagarajan, Goodman Gu

**Published**: 2024-02-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Application developers advertise their Apps by creating product pages with
App images, and bidding on search terms. It is then crucial for App images to
be highly relevant with the search terms. Solutions to this problem require an
image-text matching model to predict the quality of the match between the
chosen image and the search terms. In this work, we present a novel approach to
matching an App image to search terms based on fine-tuning a pre-trained LXMERT
model. We show that compared to the CLIP model and a baseline using a
Transformer model for search terms, and a ResNet model for images, we
significantly improve the matching accuracy. We evaluate our approach using two
sets of labels: advertiser associated (image, search term) pairs for a given
application, and human ratings for the relevance between (image, search term)
pairs. Our approach achieves 0.96 AUC score for advertiser associated ground
truth, outperforming the transformer+ResNet baseline and the fine-tuned CLIP
model by 8% and 14%. For human labeled ground truth, our approach achieves 0.95
AUC score, outperforming the transformer+ResNet baseline and the fine-tuned
CLIP model by 16% and 17%.

---
