# Daily Papers - 2024-05-30

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-05-30)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [MAP-Neo: Highly Capable and Transparent Bilingual Large Language Model
  Series](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.19327)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.19327](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.19327)

**Authors**: Ge Zhang, Scott Qu, Jiaheng Liu, Chenchen Zhang, Chenghua Lin, Chou Leuang Yu, Danny Pan, Esther Cheng, Jie Liu, Qunshu Lin, Raven Yuan, Tuney Zheng, Wei Pang, Xinrun Du, Yiming Liang, Yinghao Ma, Yizhi Li, Ziyang Ma, Bill Lin, Emmanouil Benetos, Huan Yang, Junting Zhou, Kaijing Ma, Minghao Liu, Morry Niu, Noah Wang, Quehry Que, Ruibo Liu, Sine Liu, Shawn Guo, Soren Gao, Wangchunshu Zhou, Xinyue Zhang, Yizhi Zhou, Yubo Wang, Yuelin Bai, Yuhan Zhang, Yuxiang Zhang, Zenith Wang, Zhenzhu Yang, Zijian Zhao, Jiajun Zhang, Wanli Ouyang, Wenhao Huang, Wenhu Chen

**Published**: 2024-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 48

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/multimodal-art-projection/map-neo)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have made great strides in recent years to
achieve unprecedented performance across different tasks. However, due to
commercial interest, the most competitive models like GPT, Gemini, and Claude
have been gated behind proprietary interfaces without disclosing the training
details. Recently, many institutions have open-sourced several strong LLMs like
LLaMA-3, comparable to existing closed-source LLMs. However, only the model's
weights are provided with most details (e.g., intermediate checkpoints,
pre-training corpus, and training code, etc.) being undisclosed. To improve the
transparency of LLMs, the research community has formed to open-source truly
open LLMs (e.g., Pythia, Amber, OLMo), where more details (e.g., pre-training
corpus and training code) are being provided. These models have greatly
advanced the scientific study of these large models including their strengths,
weaknesses, biases and risks. However, we observe that the existing truly open
LLMs on reasoning, knowledge, and coding tasks are still inferior to existing
state-of-the-art LLMs with similar model sizes. To this end, we open-source
MAP-Neo, a highly capable and transparent bilingual language model with 7B
parameters trained from scratch on 4.5T high-quality tokens. Our MAP-Neo is the
first fully open-sourced bilingual LLM with comparable performance compared to
existing state-of-the-art LLMs. Moreover, we open-source all details to
reproduce our MAP-Neo, where the cleaned pre-training corpus, data cleaning
pipeline, checkpoints, and well-optimized training/evaluation framework are
provided. Finally, we hope our MAP-Neo will enhance and strengthen the open
research community and inspire more innovations and creativities to facilitate
the further improvements of LLMs.

---

## 2. [Self-Exploring Language Models: Active Preference Elicitation for Online
  Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.19332)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.19332](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.19332)

**Authors**: Shenao Zhang, Donghan Yu, Hiteshi Sharma, Ziyi Yang, Shuohang Wang, Hany Hassan, Zhaoran Wang

**Published**: 2024-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/shenao-zhang/selm)

### Abstract

Preference optimization, particularly through Reinforcement Learning from
Human Feedback (RLHF), has achieved significant success in aligning Large
Language Models (LLMs) to adhere to human intentions. Unlike offline alignment
with a fixed dataset, online feedback collection from humans or AI on model
generations typically leads to more capable reward models and better-aligned
LLMs through an iterative process. However, achieving a globally accurate
reward model requires systematic exploration to generate diverse responses that
span the vast space of natural language. Random sampling from standard
reward-maximizing LLMs alone is insufficient to fulfill this requirement. To
address this issue, we propose a bilevel objective optimistically biased
towards potentially high-reward responses to actively explore
out-of-distribution regions. By solving the inner-level problem with the
reparameterized reward function, the resulting algorithm, named Self-Exploring
Language Models (SELM), eliminates the need for a separate RM and iteratively
updates the LLM with a straightforward objective. Compared to Direct Preference
Optimization (DPO), the SELM objective reduces indiscriminate favor of unseen
extrapolations and enhances exploration efficiency. Our experimental results
demonstrate that when finetuned on Zephyr-7B-SFT and Llama-3-8B-Instruct
models, SELM significantly boosts the performance on instruction-following
benchmarks such as MT-Bench and AlpacaEval 2.0, as well as various standard
academic benchmarks in different settings. Our code and models are available at
https://github.com/shenao-zhang/SELM.

---

## 3. [T2V-Turbo: Breaking the Quality Bottleneck of Video Consistency Model
  with Mixed Reward Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18750)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18750](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18750)

**Authors**: Jiachen Li, Weixi Feng, Tsu-Jui Fu, Xinyi Wang, Sugato Basu, Wenhu Chen, William Yang Wang

**Published**: 2024-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Ji4chenLi/t2v-turbo) | [Project Page](https://t2v-turbo.github.io/)

### Abstract

Diffusion-based text-to-video (T2V) models have achieved significant success
but continue to be hampered by the slow sampling speed of their iterative
sampling processes. To address the challenge, consistency models have been
proposed to facilitate fast inference, albeit at the cost of sample quality. In
this work, we aim to break the quality bottleneck of a video consistency model
(VCM) to achieve both fast and high-quality video generation. We
introduce T2V-Turbo, which integrates feedback from a mixture of differentiable
reward models into the consistency distillation (CD) process of a pre-trained
T2V model. Notably, we directly optimize rewards associated with single-step
generations that arise naturally from computing the CD loss, effectively
bypassing the memory constraints imposed by backpropagating gradients through
an iterative sampling process. Remarkably, the 4-step generations from our
T2V-Turbo achieve the highest total score on VBench, even surpassing Gen-2 and
Pika. We further conduct human evaluations to corroborate the results,
validating that the 4-step generations from our T2V-Turbo are preferred over
the 50-step DDIM samples from their teacher models, representing more than a
tenfold acceleration while improving video generation quality.

---

## 4. [LLMs achieve adult human performance on higher-order theory of mind
  tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18870)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18870](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18870)

**Authors**: Winnie Street, John Oliver Siy, Geoff Keeling, Adrien Baranes, Benjamin Barnett, Michael McKibben, Tatenda Kanyere, Alison Lentz, Blaise Aguera y Arcas, Robin I. M. Dunbar

**Published**: 2024-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

This paper examines the extent to which large language models (LLMs) have
developed higher-order theory of mind (ToM); the human ability to reason about
multiple mental and emotional states in a recursive manner (e.g. I think that
you believe that she knows). This paper builds on prior work by introducing a
handwritten test suite -- Multi-Order Theory of Mind Q&A -- and using it to
compare the performance of five LLMs to a newly gathered adult human benchmark.
We find that GPT-4 and Flan-PaLM reach adult-level and near adult-level
performance on ToM tasks overall, and that GPT-4 exceeds adult performance on
6th order inferences. Our results suggest that there is an interplay between
model size and finetuning for the realisation of ToM abilities, and that the
best-performing LLMs have developed a generalised capacity for ToM. Given the
role that higher-order ToM plays in a wide range of cooperative and competitive
human behaviours, these findings have significant implications for user-facing
LLM applications.

---

## 5. [Offline Regularised Reinforcement Learning for Large Language Models
  Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.19107)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.19107](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.19107)

**Authors**: Pierre Harvey Richemond, Yunhao Tang, Daniel Guo, Daniele Calandriello, Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar, Rafael Rafailov, Bernardo Avila Pires, Eugene Tarassov, Lucas Spangher, Will Ellsworth, Aliaksei Severyn, Jonathan Mallinson, Lior Shani, Gil Shamir, Rishabh Joshi, Tianqi Liu, Remi Munos, Bilal Piot

**Published**: 2024-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

The dominant framework for alignment of large language models (LLM), whether
through reinforcement learning from human feedback or direct preference
optimisation, is to learn from preference data. This involves building datasets
where each element is a quadruplet composed of a prompt, two independent
responses (completions of the prompt) and a human preference between the two
independent responses, yielding a preferred and a dis-preferred response. Such
data is typically scarce and expensive to collect. On the other hand,
single-trajectory datasets where each element is a triplet composed of a
prompt, a response and a human feedback is naturally more abundant. The
canonical element of such datasets is for instance an LLM's response to a
user's prompt followed by a user's feedback such as a thumbs-up/down.
Consequently, in this work, we propose DRO, or Direct Reward
Optimisation, as a framework and associated algorithms that do not require
pairwise preferences. DRO uses a simple mean-squared objective that can be
implemented in various ways. We validate our findings empirically, using T5
encoder-decoder language models, and show DRO's performance over selected
baselines such as Kahneman-Tversky Optimization (KTO). Thus, we confirm that
DRO is a simple and empirically compelling method for single-trajectory policy
optimisation.

---

## 6. [Nearest Neighbor Speculative Decoding for LLM Generation and Attribution](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.19325)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.19325](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.19325)

**Authors**: Minghan Li, Xilun Chen, Ari Holtzman, Beidi Chen, Jimmy Lin, Wen-tau Yih, Xi Victoria Lin

**Published**: 2024-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/NEST)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) often hallucinate and lack the ability to
provide attribution for their generations. Semi-parametric LMs, such as kNN-LM,
approach these limitations by refining the output of an LM for a given prompt
using its nearest neighbor matches in a non-parametric data store. However,
these models often exhibit slow inference speeds and produce non-fluent texts.
In this paper, we introduce Nearest Neighbor Speculative Decoding (NEST), a
novel semi-parametric language modeling approach that is capable of
incorporating real-world text spans of arbitrary length into the LM generations
and providing attribution to their sources. NEST performs token-level retrieval
at each inference step to compute a semi-parametric mixture distribution and
identify promising span continuations in a corpus. It then uses an approximate
speculative decoding procedure that accepts a prefix of the retrieved span or
generates a new token. NEST significantly enhances the generation quality and
attribution rate of the base LM across a variety of knowledge-intensive tasks,
surpassing the conventional kNN-LM method and performing competitively with
in-context retrieval augmentation. In addition, NEST substantially improves the
generation speed, achieving a 1.8x speedup in inference time when applied to
Llama-2-Chat 70B.

---

## 7. [EasyAnimate: A High-Performance Long Video Generation Method based on
  Transformer Architecture](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18991)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18991](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18991)

**Authors**: Jiaqi Xu, Xinyi Zou, Kunzhe Huang, Yunkuo Chen, Bo Liu, MengLi Cheng, Xing Shi, Jun Huang

**Published**: 2024-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aigc-apps/easyanimate)

### Abstract

This paper presents EasyAnimate, an advanced method for video generation that
leverages the power of transformer architecture for high-performance outcomes.
We have expanded the DiT framework originally designed for 2D image synthesis
to accommodate the complexities of 3D video generation by incorporating a
motion module block. It is used to capture temporal dynamics, thereby ensuring
the production of consistent frames and seamless motion transitions. The motion
module can be adapted to various DiT baseline methods to generate video with
different styles. It can also generate videos with different frame rates and
resolutions during both training and inference phases, suitable for both images
and videos. Moreover, we introduce slice VAE, a novel approach to condense the
temporal axis, facilitating the generation of long duration videos. Currently,
EasyAnimate exhibits the proficiency to generate videos with 144 frames. We
provide a holistic ecosystem for video production based on DiT, encompassing
aspects such as data pre-processing, VAE training, DiT models training (both
the baseline model and LoRA model), and end-to-end video inference. Code is
available at: https://github.com/aigc-apps/EasyAnimate. We are continuously
working to enhance the performance of our method.

---

## 8. [Zipper: A Multi-Tower Decoder Architecture for Fusing Modalities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18669)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18669](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18669)

**Authors**: Vicky Zayats, Peter Chen, Melissa Merrari, Dirk Padfield

**Published**: 2024-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Integrating multiple generative foundation models, especially those trained
on different modalities, into something greater than the sum of its parts poses
significant challenges. Two key hurdles are the availability of aligned data
(concepts that contain similar meaning but is expressed differently in
different modalities), and effectively leveraging unimodal representations in
cross-domain generative tasks, without compromising their original unimodal
capabilities.
  We propose Zipper, a multi-tower decoder architecture that addresses these
concerns by using cross-attention to flexibly compose multimodal generative
models from independently pre-trained unimodal decoders. In our experiments
fusing speech and text modalities, we show the proposed architecture performs
very competitively in scenarios with limited aligned text-speech data. We also
showcase the flexibility of our model to selectively maintain unimodal (e.g.,
text-to-text generation) generation performance by freezing the corresponding
modal tower (e.g. text). In cross-modal tasks such as automatic speech
recognition (ASR) where the output modality is text, we show that freezing the
text backbone results in negligible performance degradation. In cross-modal
tasks such as text-to-speech generation (TTS) where the output modality is
speech, we show that using a pre-trained speech backbone results in superior
performance to the baseline.

---

## 9. [NPGA: Neural Parametric Gaussian Avatars](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.19331)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.19331](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.19331)

**Authors**: Simon Giebenhain, Tobias Kirschstein, Martin Rünz, Lourdes Agapito, Matthias Nießner

**Published**: 2024-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

The creation of high-fidelity, digital versions of human heads is an
important stepping stone in the process of further integrating virtual
components into our everyday lives. Constructing such avatars is a challenging
research problem, due to a high demand for photo-realism and real-time
rendering performance. In this work, we propose Neural Parametric Gaussian
Avatars (NPGA), a data-driven approach to create high-fidelity, controllable
avatars from multi-view video recordings. We build our method around 3D
Gaussian Splatting for its highly efficient rendering and to inherit the
topological flexibility of point clouds. In contrast to previous work, we
condition our avatars' dynamics on the rich expression space of neural
parametric head models (NPHM), instead of mesh-based 3DMMs. To this end, we
distill the backward deformation field of our underlying NPHM into forward
deformations which are compatible with rasterization-based rendering. All
remaining fine-scale, expression-dependent details are learned from the
multi-view videos. To increase the representational capacity of our avatars, we
augment the canonical Gaussian point cloud using per-primitive latent features
which govern its dynamic behavior. To regularize this increased dynamic
expressivity, we propose Laplacian terms on the latent features and predicted
dynamics. We evaluate our method on the public NeRSemble dataset, demonstrating
that NPGA significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art avatars on
the self-reenactment task by 2.6 PSNR. Furthermore, we demonstrate accurate
animation capabilities from real-world monocular videos.

---

## 10. [Value-Incentivized Preference Optimization: A Unified Approach to Online
  and Offline RLHF](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.19320)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.19320](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.19320)

**Authors**: Shicong Cen, Jincheng Mei, Katayoon Goshvadi, Hanjun Dai, Tong Yang, Sherry Yang, Dale Schuurmans, Yuejie Chi, Bo Dai

**Published**: 2024-05-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has demonstrated great
promise in aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preference.
Depending on the availability of preference data, both online and offline RLHF
are active areas of investigation. A key bottleneck is understanding how to
incorporate uncertainty estimation in the reward function learned from the
preference data for RLHF, regardless of how the preference data is collected.
While the principles of optimism or pessimism under uncertainty are
well-established in standard reinforcement learning (RL), a
practically-implementable and theoretically-grounded form amenable to large
language models is not yet available, as standard techniques for constructing
confidence intervals become intractable under arbitrary policy
parameterizations.
  In this paper, we introduce a unified approach to online and offline RLHF --
value-incentivized preference optimization (VPO) -- which regularizes the
maximum-likelihood estimate of the reward function with the corresponding value
function, modulated by a sign to indicate whether the optimism or
pessimism is chosen. VPO also directly optimizes the policy with implicit
reward modeling, and therefore shares a simpler RLHF pipeline similar to direct
preference optimization. Theoretical guarantees of VPO are provided for both
online and offline settings, matching the rates of their standard RL
counterparts. Moreover, experiments on text summarization and dialog verify the
practicality and effectiveness of VPO.

---

## 11. [SoundCTM: Uniting Score-based and Consistency Models for Text-to-Sound
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18503)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18503](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18503)

**Organization**: Sony

**Authors**: Koichi Saito, Dongjun Kim, Takashi Shibuya, Chieh-Hsin Lai, Zhi Zhong, Yuhta Takida, Yuki Mitsufuji

**Published**: 2024-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sony/soundctm)

### Abstract

Sound content is an indispensable element for multimedia works such as video
games, music, and films. Recent high-quality diffusion-based sound generation
models can serve as valuable tools for the creators. However, despite producing
high-quality sounds, these models often suffer from slow inference speeds. This
drawback burdens creators, who typically refine their sounds through trial and
error to align them with their artistic intentions. To address this issue, we
introduce Sound Consistency Trajectory Models (SoundCTM). Our model enables
flexible transitioning between high-quality 1-step sound generation and
superior sound quality through multi-step generation. This allows creators to
initially control sounds with 1-step samples before refining them through
multi-step generation. While CTM fundamentally achieves flexible 1-step and
multi-step generation, its impressive performance heavily depends on an
additional pretrained feature extractor and an adversarial loss, which are
expensive to train and not always available in other domains. Thus, we reframe
CTM's training framework and introduce a novel feature distance by utilizing
the teacher's network for a distillation loss. Additionally, while distilling
classifier-free guided trajectories, we train conditional and unconditional
student models simultaneously and interpolate between these models during
inference. We also propose training-free controllable frameworks for SoundCTM,
leveraging its flexible sampling capability. SoundCTM achieves both promising
1-step and multi-step real-time sound generation without using any extra
off-the-shelf networks. Furthermore, we demonstrate SoundCTM's capability of
controllable sound generation in a training-free manner.

---

## 12. [Atlas3D: Physically Constrained Self-Supporting Text-to-3D for
  Simulation and Fabrication](https://huggingface.co/papers/2405.18515)

**ArXiv ID**: [2405.18515](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.18515)

**Authors**: Yunuo Chen, Tianyi Xie, Zeshun Zong, Xuan Li, Feng Gao, Yin Yang, Ying Nian Wu, Chenfanfu Jiang

**Published**: 2024-05-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-05-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Existing diffusion-based text-to-3D generation methods primarily focus on
producing visually realistic shapes and appearances, often neglecting the
physical constraints necessary for downstream tasks. Generated models
frequently fail to maintain balance when placed in physics-based simulations or
3D printed. This balance is crucial for satisfying user design intentions in
interactive gaming, embodied AI, and robotics, where stable models are needed
for reliable interaction. Additionally, stable models ensure that 3D-printed
objects, such as figurines for home decoration, can stand on their own without
requiring additional supports. To fill this gap, we introduce Atlas3D, an
automatic and easy-to-implement method that enhances existing Score
Distillation Sampling (SDS)-based text-to-3D tools. Atlas3D ensures the
generation of self-supporting 3D models that adhere to physical laws of
stability under gravity, contact, and friction. Our approach combines a novel
differentiable simulation-based loss function with physically inspired
regularization, serving as either a refinement or a post-processing module for
existing frameworks. We verify Atlas3D's efficacy through extensive generation
tasks and validate the resulting 3D models in both simulated and real-world
environments.

---
