# Daily Papers - 2023-11-02

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-02)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [Distil-Whisper: Robust Knowledge Distillation via Large-Scale Pseudo
  Labelling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00430)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00430](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00430)

**Authors**: Sanchit Gandhi, Patrick von Platen, Alexander M. Rush

**Published**: 2023-11-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 56

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/innerNULL/simpler-distil-whisper)

### Abstract

As the size of pre-trained speech recognition models increases, running these
large models in low-latency or resource-constrained environments becomes
challenging. In this work, we leverage pseudo-labelling to assemble a
large-scale open-source dataset which we use to distill the Whisper model into
a smaller variant, called Distil-Whisper. Using a simple word error rate (WER)
heuristic, we select only the highest quality pseudo-labels for training. The
distilled model is 5.8 times faster with 51% fewer parameters, while performing
to within 1% WER on out-of-distribution test data in a zero-shot transfer
setting. Distil-Whisper maintains the robustness of the Whisper model to
difficult acoustic conditions, while being less prone to hallucination errors
on long-form audio. Distil-Whisper is designed to be paired with Whisper for
speculative decoding, yielding a 2 times speed-up while mathematically ensuring
the same outputs as the original model. To facilitate further research in this
domain, we make our training code, inference code and models publicly
accessible.

---

## 2. [LLaVA-Interactive: An All-in-One Demo for Image Chat, Segmentation,
  Generation and Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00571)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00571](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00571)

**Authors**: Wei-Ge Chen, Irina Spiridonova, Jianwei Yang, Chunyuan Li

**Published**: 2023-11-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 43

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/LLaVA-VL/LLaVA-Interactive-Demo)

### Abstract

LLaVA-Interactive is a research prototype for multimodal human-AI
interaction. The system can have multi-turn dialogues with human users by
taking multimodal user inputs and generating multimodal responses. Importantly,
LLaVA-Interactive goes beyond language prompt, where visual prompt is enabled
to align human intents in the interaction. The development of LLaVA-Interactive
is extremely cost-efficient as the system combines three multimodal skills of
pre-built AI models without additional model training: visual chat of LLaVA,
image segmentation from SEEM, as well as image generation and editing from
GLIGEN. A diverse set of application scenarios is presented to demonstrate the
promises of LLaVA-Interactive and to inspire future research in multimodal
interactive systems.

---

## 3. [Controllable Music Production with Diffusion Models and Guidance
  Gradients](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00613)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00613](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00613)

**Authors**: Mark Levy, Bruno Di Giorgi, Floris Weers, Angelos Katharopoulos, Tom Nickson

**Published**: 2023-11-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

We demonstrate how conditional generation from diffusion models can be used
to tackle a variety of realistic tasks in the production of music in 44.1kHz
stereo audio with sampling-time guidance. The scenarios we consider include
continuation, inpainting and regeneration of musical audio, the creation of
smooth transitions between two different music tracks, and the transfer of
desired stylistic characteristics to existing audio clips. We achieve this by
applying guidance at sampling time in a simple framework that supports both
reconstruction and classification losses, or any combination of the two. This
approach ensures that generated audio can match its surrounding context, or
conform to a class distribution or latent representation specified relative to
any suitable pre-trained classifier or embedding model.

---

## 4. [De-Diffusion Makes Text a Strong Cross-Modal Interface](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00618)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00618](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00618)

**Authors**: Chen Wei, Chenxi Liu, Siyuan Qiao, Zhishuai Zhang, Alan Yuille, Jiahui Yu

**Published**: 2023-11-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Yaxin9Luo/my_dediffusion)

### Abstract

We demonstrate text as a strong cross-modal interface. Rather than relying on
deep embeddings to connect image and language as the interface representation,
our approach represents an image as text, from which we enjoy the
interpretability and flexibility inherent to natural language. We employ an
autoencoder that uses a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model for decoding.
The encoder is trained to transform an input image into text, which is then fed
into the fixed text-to-image diffusion decoder to reconstruct the original
input -- a process we term De-Diffusion. Experiments validate both the
precision and comprehensiveness of De-Diffusion text representing images, such
that it can be readily ingested by off-the-shelf text-to-image tools and LLMs
for diverse multi-modal tasks. For example, a single De-Diffusion model can
generalize to provide transferable prompts for different text-to-image tools,
and also achieves a new state of the art on open-ended vision-language tasks by
simply prompting large language models with few-shot examples.

---

## 5. [The Generative AI Paradox: "What It Can Create, It May Not Understand"](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00059)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00059](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00059)

**Authors**: Peter West, Ximing Lu, Nouha Dziri, Faeze Brahman, Linjie Li, Jena D. Hwang, Liwei Jiang, Jillian Fisher, Abhilasha Ravichander, Khyathi Chandu, Benjamin Newman, Pang Wei Koh, Allyson Ettinger, Yejin Choi

**Published**: 2023-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

The recent wave of generative AI has sparked unprecedented global attention,
with both excitement and concern over potentially superhuman levels of
artificial intelligence: models now take only seconds to produce outputs that
would challenge or exceed the capabilities even of expert humans. At the same
time, models still show basic errors in understanding that would not be
expected even in non-expert humans. This presents us with an apparent paradox:
how do we reconcile seemingly superhuman capabilities with the persistence of
errors that few humans would make? In this work, we posit that this tension
reflects a divergence in the configuration of intelligence in today's
generative models relative to intelligence in humans. Specifically, we propose
and test the Generative AI Paradox hypothesis: generative models, having been
trained directly to reproduce expert-like outputs, acquire generative
capabilities that are not contingent upon -- and can therefore exceed -- their
ability to understand those same types of outputs. This contrasts with humans,
for whom basic understanding almost always precedes the ability to generate
expert-level outputs. We test this hypothesis through controlled experiments
analyzing generation vs. understanding in generative models, across both
language and image modalities. Our results show that although models can
outperform humans in generation, they consistently fall short of human
capabilities in measures of understanding, as well as weaker correlation
between generation and understanding performance, and more brittleness to
adversarial inputs. Our findings support the hypothesis that models' generative
capability may not be contingent upon understanding capability, and call for
caution in interpreting artificial intelligence by analogy to human
intelligence.

---

## 6. [Text Rendering Strategies for Pixel Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00522)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00522](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00522)

**Authors**: Jonas F. Lotz, Elizabeth Salesky, Phillip Rust, Desmond Elliott

**Published**: 2023-11-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Pixel-based language models process text rendered as images, which allows
them to handle any script, making them a promising approach to open vocabulary
language modelling. However, recent approaches use text renderers that produce
a large set of almost-equivalent input patches, which may prove sub-optimal for
downstream tasks, due to redundancy in the input representations. In this
paper, we investigate four approaches to rendering text in the PIXEL model
(Rust et al., 2023), and find that simple character bigram rendering brings
improved performance on sentence-level tasks without compromising performance
on token-level or multilingual tasks. This new rendering strategy also makes it
possible to train a more compact model with only 22M parameters that performs
on par with the original 86M parameter model. Our analyses show that character
bigram rendering leads to a consistently better model but with an anisotropic
patch embedding space, driven by a patch frequency bias, highlighting the
connections between image patch- and tokenization-based language models.

---

## 7. [ChatCoder: Chat-based Refine Requirement Improves LLMs' Code Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00272)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00272](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00272)

**Authors**: Zejun Wang, Jia Li, Ge Li, Zhi Jin

**Published**: 2023-11-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Large language models have shown good performances in generating code to meet
human requirements. However, human requirements expressed in natural languages
can be vague, incomplete, and ambiguous, leading large language models to
misunderstand human requirements and make mistakes. Worse, it is difficult for
a human user to refine the requirement. To help human users refine their
requirements and improve large language models' code generation performances,
we propose ChatCoder: a method to refine the requirements via chatting with
large language models. We design a chat scheme in which the large language
models will guide the human users to refine their expression of requirements to
be more precise, unambiguous, and complete than before. Experiments show that
ChatCoder has improved existing large language models' performance by a large
margin. Besides, ChatCoder has the advantage over refine-based methods and LLMs
fine-tuned via human response.

---

## 8. [AMSP: Super-Scaling LLM Training via Advanced Model States Partitioning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00257)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00257](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00257)

**Authors**: Qiaoling Chen, Qinghao Hu, Zhisheng Ye, Guoteng Wang, Peng Sun, Yonggang Wen, Tianwei Zhang

**Published**: 2023-11-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/internlm/internevo)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance across
various downstream tasks. When training these models, there is a growing
inclination to process more tokens on larger training scales but with
relatively smaller model sizes. Zero Redundancy Optimizer (ZeRO), although
effective in conventional training environments, grapples with scaling
challenges when confronted with this emerging paradigm. To this end, we propose
a novel LLM training framework AMSP, which undertakes a granular partitioning
of model states, encompassing parameters (P), gradient (G), and optimizer
states (OS). Specifically, AMSP(1) builds a unified partitioning space,
enabling independent partitioning strategies for P, G, and OS; (2)
incorporates a scale-aware partitioner to autonomously search for optimal
partitioning strategies: (3) designs a dedicated communication optimizer to
ensure proficient management of data placement discrepancies arising from
diverse partitioning strategies. Our evaluations show that AMSP achieves up to
90.3% scaling efficiency across 1024 GPUs.

---

## 9. [Grounding Visual Illusions in Language: Do Vision-Language Models
  Perceive Illusions Like Humans?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00047)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00047](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00047)

**Authors**: Yichi Zhang, Jiayi Pan, Yuchen Zhou, Rui Pan, Joyce Chai

**Published**: 2023-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-02 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vl-illusion/dataset)

### Abstract

Vision-Language Models (VLMs) are trained on vast amounts of data captured by
humans emulating our understanding of the world. However, known as visual
illusions, human's perception of reality isn't always faithful to the physical
world. This raises a key question: do VLMs have the similar kind of illusions
as humans do, or do they faithfully learn to represent reality? To investigate
this question, we build a dataset containing five types of visual illusions and
formulate four tasks to examine visual illusions in state-of-the-art VLMs. Our
findings have shown that although the overall alignment is low, larger models
are closer to human perception and more susceptible to visual illusions. Our
dataset and initial findings will promote a better understanding of visual
illusions in humans and machines and provide a stepping stone for future
computational models that can better align humans and machines in perceiving
and communicating about the shared visual world. The code and data are
available at https://github.com/vl-illusion/dataset.

---
