# Daily Papers - 2023-11-16

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-16)

Total papers: 13

---

## 1. [Drivable 3D Gaussian Avatars](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.08581)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.08581](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08581)

**Authors**: Wojciech Zielonka, Timur Bagautdinov, Shunsuke Saito, Michael Zollhöfer, Justus Thies, Javier Romero

**Published**: 2023-11-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 47

### Abstract

We present Drivable 3D Gaussian Avatars (D3GA), the first 3D controllable
model for human bodies rendered with Gaussian splats. Current photorealistic
drivable avatars require either accurate 3D registrations during training,
dense input images during testing, or both. The ones based on neural radiance
fields also tend to be prohibitively slow for telepresence applications. This
work uses the recently presented 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) technique to
render realistic humans at real-time framerates, using dense calibrated
multi-view videos as input. To deform those primitives, we depart from the
commonly used point deformation method of linear blend skinning (LBS) and use a
classic volumetric deformation method: cage deformations. Given their smaller
size, we drive these deformations with joint angles and keypoints, which are
more suitable for communication applications. Our experiments on nine subjects
with varied body shapes, clothes, and motions obtain higher-quality results
than state-of-the-art methods when using the same training and test data.

---

## 2. [Single-Image 3D Human Digitization with Shape-Guided Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.09221)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.09221](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09221)

**Authors**: Badour AlBahar, Shunsuke Saito, Hung-Yu Tseng, Changil Kim, Johannes Kopf, Jia-Bin Huang

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

We present an approach to generate a 360-degree view of a person with a
consistent, high-resolution appearance from a single input image. NeRF and its
variants typically require videos or images from different viewpoints. Most
existing approaches taking monocular input either rely on ground-truth 3D scans
for supervision or lack 3D consistency. While recent 3D generative models show
promise of 3D consistent human digitization, these approaches do not generalize
well to diverse clothing appearances, and the results lack photorealism. Unlike
existing work, we utilize high-capacity 2D diffusion models pretrained for
general image synthesis tasks as an appearance prior of clothed humans. To
achieve better 3D consistency while retaining the input identity, we
progressively synthesize multiple views of the human in the input image by
inpainting missing regions with shape-guided diffusion conditioned on
silhouette and surface normal. We then fuse these synthesized multi-view images
via inverse rendering to obtain a fully textured high-resolution 3D mesh of the
given person. Experiments show that our approach outperforms prior methods and
achieves photorealistic 360-degree synthesis of a wide range of clothed humans
with complex textures from a single image.

---

## 3. [DMV3D: Denoising Multi-View Diffusion using 3D Large Reconstruction
  Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.09217)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.09217](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09217)

**Authors**: Yinghao Xu, Hao Tan, Fujun Luan, Sai Bi, Peng Wang, Jiahao Li, Zifan Shi, Kalyan Sunkavalli, Gordon Wetzstein, Zexiang Xu, Kai Zhang

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

We propose DMV3D, a novel 3D generation approach that uses a
transformer-based 3D large reconstruction model to denoise multi-view
diffusion. Our reconstruction model incorporates a triplane NeRF representation
and can denoise noisy multi-view images via NeRF reconstruction and rendering,
achieving single-stage 3D generation in sim30s on single A100 GPU. We train
DMV3D on large-scale multi-view image datasets of highly diverse
objects using only image reconstruction losses, without accessing 3D assets. We
demonstrate state-of-the-art results for the single-image reconstruction
problem where probabilistic modeling of unseen object parts is required for
generating diverse reconstructions with sharp textures. We also show
high-quality text-to-3D generation results outperforming previous 3D diffusion
models. Our project website is at: https://justimyhxu.github.io/projects/dmv3d/ .

---

## 4. [EDMSound: Spectrogram Based Diffusion Models for Efficient and
  High-Quality Audio Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.08667)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.08667](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08667)

**Authors**: Ge Zhu, Yutong Wen, Marc-André Carbonneau, Zhiyao Duan

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Audio diffusion models can synthesize a wide variety of sounds. Existing
models often operate on the latent domain with cascaded phase recovery modules
to reconstruct waveform. This poses challenges when generating high-fidelity
audio. In this paper, we propose EDMSound, a diffusion-based generative model
in spectrogram domain under the framework of elucidated diffusion models (EDM).
Combining with efficient deterministic sampler, we achieved similar Fr\'echet
audio distance (FAD) score as top-ranked baseline with only 10 steps and
reached state-of-the-art performance with 50 steps on the DCASE2023 foley sound
generation benchmark. We also revealed a potential concern regarding diffusion
based audio generation models that they tend to generate samples with high
perceptual similarity to the data from training data. Project page:
https://agentcooper2002.github.io/EDMSound/

---

## 5. [GRIM: GRaph-based Interactive narrative visualization for gaMes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.09213)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.09213](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09213)

**Authors**: Jorge Leandro, Sudha Rao, Michael Xu, Weijia Xu, Nebosja Jojic, Chris Brockett, Bill Dolan

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Dialogue-based Role Playing Games (RPGs) require powerful storytelling. The
narratives of these may take years to write and typically involve a large
creative team. In this work, we demonstrate the potential of large generative
text models to assist this process. GRIM, a prototype
GRaph-based Interactive narrative visualization system for
gaMes, generates a rich narrative graph with branching storylines that
match a high-level narrative description and constraints provided by the
designer. Game designers can interactively edit the graph by automatically
generating new sub-graphs that fit the edits within the original narrative and
constraints. We illustrate the use of GRIM in conjunction with GPT-4,
generating branching narratives for four well-known stories with different
contextual constraints.

---

## 6. [Routing to the Expert: Efficient Reward-guided Ensemble of Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.08692)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.08692](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08692)

**Authors**: Keming Lu, Hongyi Yuan, Runji Lin, Junyang Lin, Zheng Yuan, Chang Zhou, Jingren Zhou

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

The complementary potential of Large Language Models (LLM) assumes
off-the-shelf LLMs have heterogeneous expertise in a wide range of domains and
tasks so that an ensemble of LLMs can achieve consistently better performance.
Existing ensemble methods for LLMs mainly focus on reward model ranking of
outputs, leading to significant computation overhead. To combat this issue, we
revisit the complementary potential of LLMs and further elaborate it by mining
latent expertise with off-the-shelf reward models. We propose Zooter, a
reward-guided routing method distilling rewards on training queries to train a
routing function, which can precisely distribute each query to the LLM with
expertise about it. We also integrate a tag-based label enhancement to mitigate
noise from uncertainty when using rewards as silver supervision. Zooter shows
computation efficiency in inference as it introduces only a minor computation
overhead of a routing function compared with reward model ranking methods. We
evaluate Zooter on a comprehensive benchmark collection with 26 subsets on
different domains and tasks. Zooter outperforms the best single model on
average and ranks first on 44% of tasks, even surpassing multiple reward model
ranking methods.

---

## 7. [UNcommonsense Reasoning: Abductive Reasoning about Uncommon Situations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.08469)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.08469](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08469)

**Authors**: Wenting Zhao, Justin T Chiu, Jena D. Hwang, Faeze Brahman, Jack Hessel, Sanjiban Choudhury, Yejin Choi, Xiang Lorraine Li, Alane Suhr

**Published**: 2023-11-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Language technologies that accurately model the dynamics of events must
perform commonsense reasoning. Existing work evaluating commonsense reasoning
focuses on making inferences about common, everyday situations. To instead
investigate the ability to model unusual, unexpected, and unlikely situations,
we explore the task of uncommonsense abductive reasoning. Given a piece of
context with an unexpected outcome, this task requires reasoning abductively to
generate a natural language explanation that makes the unexpected outcome more
likely in the context. To this end, we curate and release a new English
language corpus called UNcommonsense. We characterize the differences between
the performance of human explainers and the best performing large language
models, finding that model-enhanced human-written explanations achieve the
highest quality by trading off between specificity and diversity. Finally, we
experiment with several online imitation learning algorithms to train open and
accessible language models on this task. When compared with the vanilla
supervised fine-tuning approach, these methods consistently reduce lose rates
on both common and uncommonsense abductive reasoning judged by human
evaluators.

---

## 8. [SiRA: Sparse Mixture of Low Rank Adaptation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.09179)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.09179](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09179)

**Authors**: Yun Zhu, Nevan Wichers, Chu-Cheng Lin, Xinyi Wang, Tianlong Chen, Lei Shu, Han Lu, Canoee Liu, Liangchen Luo, Jindong Chen, Lei Meng

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Parameter Efficient Tuning has been an prominent approach to adapt the Large
Language Model to downstream tasks. Most previous works considers adding the
dense trainable parameters, where all parameters are used to adapt certain
task. We found this less effective empirically using the example of LoRA that
introducing more trainable parameters does not help. Motivated by this we
investigate the importance of leveraging "sparse" computation and propose SiRA:
sparse mixture of low rank adaption. SiRA leverages the Sparse Mixture of
Expert(SMoE) to boost the performance of LoRA. Specifically it enforces the top
k experts routing with a capacity limit restricting the maximum number of
tokens each expert can process. We propose a novel and simple expert dropout on
top of gating network to reduce the over-fitting issue. Through extensive
experiments, we verify SiRA performs better than LoRA and other mixture of
expert approaches across different single tasks and multitask settings.

---

## 9. [PEARL: Personalizing Large Language Model Writing Assistants with
  Generation-Calibrated Retrievers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.09180)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.09180](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09180)

**Authors**: Sheshera Mysore, Zhuoran Lu, Mengting Wan, Longqi Yang, Steve Menezes, Tina Baghaee, Emmanuel Barajas Gonzalez, Jennifer Neville, Tara Safavi

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Powerful large language models have facilitated the development of writing
assistants that promise to significantly improve the quality and efficiency of
composition and communication. However, a barrier to effective assistance is
the lack of personalization in LLM outputs to the author's communication style
and specialized knowledge. In this paper, we address this challenge by
proposing PEARL, a retrieval-augmented LLM writing assistant personalized with
a generation-calibrated retriever. Our retriever is trained to select historic
user-authored documents for prompt augmentation, such that they are likely to
best personalize LLM generations for a user request. We propose two key
novelties for training our retriever: 1) A training data selection method that
identifies user requests likely to benefit from personalization and documents
that provide that benefit; and 2) A scale-calibrating KL-divergence objective
that ensures that our retriever closely tracks the benefit of a document for
personalized generation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of PEARL in
generating personalized workplace social media posts and Reddit comments.
Finally, we showcase the potential of a generation-calibrated retriever to
double as a performance predictor and further improve low-quality generations
via LLM chaining.

---

## 10. [UT5: Pretraining Non autoregressive T5 with unrolled denoising](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.08552)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.08552](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08552)

**Authors**: Mahmoud G. Salem, Jiayu Ye, Chu-Cheng Lin, Frederick Liu

**Published**: 2023-11-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Recent advances in Transformer-based Large Language Models have made great
strides in natural language generation. However, to decode K tokens, an
autoregressive model needs K sequential forward passes, which may be a
performance bottleneck for large language models. Many non-autoregressive (NAR)
research are aiming to address this sequentiality bottleneck, albeit many have
focused on a dedicated architecture in supervised benchmarks. In this work, we
studied unsupervised pretraining for non auto-regressive T5 models via unrolled
denoising and shown its SoTA results in downstream generation tasks such as
SQuAD question generation and XSum.

---

## 11. [Llamas Know What GPTs Don't Show: Surrogate Models for Confidence
  Estimation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.08877)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.08877](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08877)

**Authors**: Vaishnavi Shrivastava, Percy Liang, Ananya Kumar

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

To maintain user trust, large language models (LLMs) should signal low
confidence on examples where they are incorrect, instead of misleading the
user. The standard approach of estimating confidence is to use the softmax
probabilities of these models, but as of November 2023, state-of-the-art LLMs
such as GPT-4 and Claude-v1.3 do not provide access to these probabilities. We
first study eliciting confidence linguistically -- asking an LLM for its
confidence in its answer -- which performs reasonably (80.5% AUC on GPT-4
averaged across 12 question-answering datasets -- 7% above a random baseline)
but leaves room for improvement. We then explore using a surrogate confidence
model -- using a model where we do have probabilities to evaluate the original
model's confidence in a given question. Surprisingly, even though these
probabilities come from a different and often weaker model, this method leads
to higher AUC than linguistic confidences on 9 out of 12 datasets. Our best
method composing linguistic confidences and surrogate model probabilities gives
state-of-the-art confidence estimates on all 12 datasets (84.6% average AUC on
GPT-4).

---

## 12. [Thread of Thought Unraveling Chaotic Contexts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.08734)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.08734](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08734)

**Authors**: Yucheng Zhou, Xiubo Geng, Tao Shen, Chongyang Tao, Guodong Long, Jian-Guang Lou, Jianbing Shen

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have ushered in a transformative era in the
field of natural language processing, excelling in tasks related to text
comprehension and generation. Nevertheless, they encounter difficulties when
confronted with chaotic contexts (e.g., distractors rather than long irrelevant
context), leading to the inadvertent omission of certain details within the
chaotic context. In response to these challenges, we introduce the "Thread of
Thought" (ThoT) strategy, which draws inspiration from human cognitive
processes. ThoT systematically segments and analyzes extended contexts while
adeptly selecting pertinent information. This strategy serves as a versatile
"plug-and-play" module, seamlessly integrating with various LLMs and prompting
techniques. In the experiments, we utilize the PopQA and EntityQ datasets, as
well as a Multi-Turn Conversation Response dataset (MTCR) we collected, to
illustrate that ThoT significantly improves reasoning performance compared to
other prompting techniques.

---

## 13. [Fusion-Eval: Integrating Evaluators with LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.09204)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.09204](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09204)

**Authors**: Lei Shu, Nevan Wichers, Liangchen Luo, Yun Zhu, Yinxiao Liu, Jindong Chen, Lei Meng

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-16 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Evaluating Large Language Models (LLMs) is a complex task, especially
considering the intricacies of natural language understanding and the
expectations for high-level reasoning. Traditional evaluations typically lean
on human-based, model-based, or automatic-metrics-based paradigms, each with
its own advantages and shortcomings. We introduce "Fusion-Eval", a system that
employs LLMs not solely for direct evaluations, but to skillfully integrate
insights from diverse evaluators. This gives Fusion-Eval flexibility, enabling
it to work effectively across diverse tasks and make optimal use of multiple
references. In testing on the SummEval dataset, Fusion-Eval achieved a Spearman
correlation of 0.96, outperforming other evaluators. The success of Fusion-Eval
underscores the potential of LLMs to produce evaluations that closely align
human perspectives, setting a new standard in the field of LLM evaluation.

---
