# Daily Papers - 2023-11-07

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-07)

Total papers: 17

---

## 1. [Levels of AGI for Operationalizing Progress on the Path to AGI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02462)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02462](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02462)

**Authors**: Meredith Ringel Morris, Jascha Sohl-dickstein, Noah Fiedel, Tris Warkentin, Allan Dafoe, Aleksandra Faust, Clement Farabet, Shane Legg

**Published**: 2023-11-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 37

### Abstract

We propose a framework for classifying the capabilities and behavior of
Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) models and their precursors. This
framework introduces levels of AGI performance, generality, and autonomy,
providing a common language to compare models, assess risks, and measure
progress along the path to AGI. To develop our framework, we analyze existing
definitions of AGI, and distill six principles that a useful ontology for AGI
should satisfy. With these principles in mind, we propose "Levels of AGI" based
on depth (performance) and breadth (generality) of capabilities, and reflect on
how current systems fit into this ontology. We discuss the challenging
requirements for future benchmarks that quantify the behavior and capabilities
of AGI models against these levels. Finally, we discuss how these levels of AGI
interact with deployment considerations such as autonomy and risk, and
emphasize the importance of carefully selecting Human-AI Interaction paradigms
for responsible and safe deployment of highly capable AI systems.

---

## 2. [GLaMM: Pixel Grounding Large Multimodal Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.03356)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.03356](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03356)

**Authors**: Hanoona Rasheed, Muhammad Maaz, Sahal Shaji, Abdelrahman Shaker, Salman Khan, Hisham Cholakkal, Rao M. Anwer, Erix Xing, Ming-Hsuan Yang, Fahad S. Khan

**Published**: 2023-11-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 36

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/groundingLMM)

### Abstract

Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) extend Large Language Models to the vision
domain. Initial efforts towards LMMs used holistic images and text prompts to
generate ungrounded textual responses. Very recently, region-level LMMs have
been used to generate visually grounded responses. However, they are limited to
only referring a single object category at a time, require users to specify the
regions in inputs, or cannot offer dense pixel-wise object grounding. In this
work, we present Grounding LMM (GLaMM), the first model that can generate
natural language responses seamlessly intertwined with corresponding object
segmentation masks. GLaMM not only grounds objects appearing in the
conversations but is flexible enough to accept both textual and optional visual
prompts (region of interest) as input. This empowers users to interact with the
model at various levels of granularity, both in textual and visual domains. Due
to the lack of standard benchmarks for the novel setting of generating visually
grounded detailed conversations, we introduce a comprehensive evaluation
protocol with our curated grounded conversations. Our proposed Grounded
Conversation Generation (GCG) task requires densely grounded concepts in
natural scenes at a large-scale. To this end, we propose a densely annotated
Grounding-anything Dataset (GranD) using our proposed automated annotation
pipeline that encompasses 7.5M unique concepts grounded in a total of 810M
regions available with segmentation masks. Besides GCG, GLaMM also performs
effectively on several downstream tasks e.g., referring expression
segmentation, image and region-level captioning and vision-language
conversations. Project Page: https://mbzuai-oryx.github.io/groundingLMM.

---

## 3. [I2VGen-XL: High-Quality Image-to-Video Synthesis via Cascaded Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.04145)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.04145](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04145)

**Authors**: Shiwei Zhang, Jiayu Wang, Yingya Zhang, Kang Zhao, Hangjie Yuan, Zhiwu Qin, Xiang Wang, Deli Zhao, Jingren Zhou

**Published**: 2023-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 34

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/modelscope/modelscope)

### Abstract

Video synthesis has recently made remarkable strides benefiting from the
rapid development of diffusion models. However, it still encounters challenges
in terms of semantic accuracy, clarity and spatio-temporal continuity. They
primarily arise from the scarcity of well-aligned text-video data and the
complex inherent structure of videos, making it difficult for the model to
simultaneously ensure semantic and qualitative excellence. In this report, we
propose a cascaded I2VGen-XL approach that enhances model performance by
decoupling these two factors and ensures the alignment of the input data by
utilizing static images as a form of crucial guidance. I2VGen-XL consists of
two stages: i) the base stage guarantees coherent semantics and preserves
content from input images by using two hierarchical encoders, and ii) the
refinement stage enhances the video's details by incorporating an additional
brief text and improves the resolution to 1280times720. To improve the
diversity, we collect around 35 million single-shot text-video pairs and 6
billion text-image pairs to optimize the model. By this means, I2VGen-XL can
simultaneously enhance the semantic accuracy, continuity of details and clarity
of generated videos. Through extensive experiments, we have investigated the
underlying principles of I2VGen-XL and compared it with current top methods,
which can demonstrate its effectiveness on diverse data. The source code and
models will be publicly available at https://i2vgen-xl.github.io.

---

## 4. [S-LoRA: Serving Thousands of Concurrent LoRA Adapters](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.03285)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.03285](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03285)

**Authors**: Ying Sheng, Shiyi Cao, Dacheng Li, Coleman Hooper, Nicholas Lee, Shuo Yang, Christopher Chou, Banghua Zhu, Lianmin Zheng, Kurt Keutzer, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Ion Stoica

**Published**: 2023-11-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/s-lora/s-lora)

### Abstract

The "pretrain-then-finetune" paradigm is commonly adopted in the deployment
of large language models. Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), a parameter-efficient
fine-tuning method, is often employed to adapt a base model to a multitude of
tasks, resulting in a substantial collection of LoRA adapters derived from one
base model. We observe that this paradigm presents significant opportunities
for batched inference during serving. To capitalize on these opportunities, we
present S-LoRA, a system designed for the scalable serving of many LoRA
adapters. S-LoRA stores all adapters in the main memory and fetches the
adapters used by the currently running queries to the GPU memory. To
efficiently use the GPU memory and reduce fragmentation, S-LoRA proposes
Unified Paging. Unified Paging uses a unified memory pool to manage dynamic
adapter weights with different ranks and KV cache tensors with varying sequence
lengths. Additionally, S-LoRA employs a novel tensor parallelism strategy and
highly optimized custom CUDA kernels for heterogeneous batching of LoRA
computation. Collectively, these features enable S-LoRA to serve thousands of
LoRA adapters on a single GPU or across multiple GPUs with a small overhead.
Compared to state-of-the-art libraries such as HuggingFace PEFT and vLLM (with
naive support of LoRA serving), S-LoRA can improve the throughput by up to 4
times and increase the number of served adapters by several orders of
magnitude. As a result, S-LoRA enables scalable serving of many task-specific
fine-tuned models and offers the potential for large-scale customized
fine-tuning services.

---

## 5. [CogVLM: Visual Expert for Pretrained Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.03079)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.03079](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03079)

**Authors**: Weihan Wang, Qingsong Lv, Wenmeng Yu, Wenyi Hong, Ji Qi, Yan Wang, Junhui Ji, Zhuoyi Yang, Lei Zhao, Xixuan Song, Jiazheng Xu, Bin Xu, Juanzi Li, Yuxiao Dong, Ming Ding, Jie Tang

**Published**: 2023-11-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

We introduce CogVLM, a powerful open-source visual language foundation model.
Different from the popular shallow alignment method which maps image features
into the input space of language model, CogVLM bridges the gap between the
frozen pretrained language model and image encoder by a trainable visual expert
module in the attention and FFN layers. As a result, CogVLM enables deep fusion
of vision language features without sacrificing any performance on NLP tasks.
CogVLM-17B achieves state-of-the-art performance on 10 classic cross-modal
benchmarks, including NoCaps, Flicker30k captioning, RefCOCO, RefCOCO+,
RefCOCOg, Visual7W, GQA, ScienceQA, VizWiz VQA and TDIUC, and ranks the 2nd on
VQAv2, OKVQA, TextVQA, COCO captioning, etc., surpassing or matching PaLI-X
55B. Codes and checkpoints are available at https://github.com/THUDM/CogVLM.

---

## 6. [Ziya2: Data-centric Learning is All LLMs Need](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.03301)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.03301](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03301)

**Authors**: Ruyi Gan, Ziwei Wu, Renliang Sun, Junyu Lu, Xiaojun Wu, Dixiang Zhang, Kunhao Pan, Ping Yang, Qi Yang, Jiaxing Zhang, Yan Song

**Published**: 2023-11-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

Various large language models (LLMs) have been proposed in recent years,
including closed- and open-source ones, continually setting new records on
multiple benchmarks. However, the development of LLMs still faces several
issues, such as high cost of training models from scratch, and continual
pre-training leading to catastrophic forgetting, etc. Although many such issues
are addressed along the line of research on LLMs, an important yet practical
limitation is that many studies overly pursue enlarging model sizes without
comprehensively analyzing and optimizing the use of pre-training data in their
learning process, as well as appropriate organization and leveraging of such
data in training LLMs under cost-effective settings. In this work, we propose
Ziya2, a model with 13 billion parameters adopting LLaMA2 as the foundation
model, and further pre-trained on 700 billion tokens, where we focus on
pre-training techniques and use data-centric optimization to enhance the
learning process of Ziya2 on different stages. Experiments show that Ziya2
significantly outperforms other models in multiple benchmarks especially with
promising results compared to representative open-source ones. Ziya2 (Base) is
released at https://huggingface.co/IDEA-CCNL/Ziya2-13B-Base and
https://modelscope.cn/models/Fengshenbang/Ziya2-13B-Base/summary.

---

## 7. [Relax: Composable Abstractions for End-to-End Dynamic Machine Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02103)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02103](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02103)

**Authors**: Ruihang Lai, Junru Shao, Siyuan Feng, Steven S. Lyubomirsky, Bohan Hou, Wuwei Lin, Zihao Ye, Hongyi Jin, Yuchen Jin, Jiawei Liu, Lesheng Jin, Yaxing Cai, Ziheng Jiang, Yong Wu, Sunghyun Park, Prakalp Srivastava, Jared G. Roesch, Todd C. Mowry, Tianqi Chen

**Published**: 2023-11-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

Dynamic shape computations have become critical in modern machine learning
workloads, especially in emerging large language models. The success of these
models has driven demand for deploying them to a diverse set of backend
environments. In this paper, we present Relax, a compiler abstraction for
optimizing end-to-end dynamic machine learning workloads. Relax introduces
first-class symbolic shape annotations to track dynamic shape computations
globally across the program. It also introduces a cross-level abstraction that
encapsulates computational graphs, loop-level tensor programs, and library
calls in a single representation to enable cross-level optimizations. We build
an end-to-end compilation framework using the proposed approach to optimize
dynamic shape models. Experimental results on large language models show that
Relax delivers performance competitive with state-of-the-art hand-optimized
systems across platforms and enables deployment of emerging dynamic models to a
broader set of environments, including mobile phones, embedded devices, and web
browsers.

---

## 8. [VR-NeRF: High-Fidelity Virtualized Walkable Spaces](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02542)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02542](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02542)

**Authors**: Linning Xu, Vasu Agrawal, William Laney, Tony Garcia, Aayush Bansal, Changil Kim, Samuel Rota Bulò, Lorenzo Porzi, Peter Kontschieder, Aljaž Božič, Dahua Lin, Michael Zollhöfer, Christian Richardt

**Published**: 2023-11-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/eyefultower)

### Abstract

We present an end-to-end system for the high-fidelity capture, model
reconstruction, and real-time rendering of walkable spaces in virtual reality
using neural radiance fields. To this end, we designed and built a custom
multi-camera rig to densely capture walkable spaces in high fidelity and with
multi-view high dynamic range images in unprecedented quality and density. We
extend instant neural graphics primitives with a novel perceptual color space
for learning accurate HDR appearance, and an efficient mip-mapping mechanism
for level-of-detail rendering with anti-aliasing, while carefully optimizing
the trade-off between quality and speed. Our multi-GPU renderer enables
high-fidelity volume rendering of our neural radiance field model at the full
VR resolution of dual 2Ktimes2K at 36 Hz on our custom demo machine. We
demonstrate the quality of our results on our challenging high-fidelity
datasets, and compare our method and datasets to existing baselines. We release
our dataset on our project website.

---

## 9. [Tell Your Model Where to Attend: Post-hoc Attention Steering for LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02262)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02262](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02262)

**Authors**: Qingru Zhang, Chandan Singh, Liyuan Liu, Xiaodong Liu, Bin Yu, Tuo Zhao

**Published**: 2023-11-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/qingruzhang/pasta)

### Abstract

In human-written articles, we often leverage the subtleties of text style,
such as bold and italics, to guide the attention of readers. These textual
emphases are vital for the readers to grasp the conveyed information. When
interacting with large language models (LLMs), we have a similar need -
steering the model to pay closer attention to user-specified information, e.g.,
an instruction. Existing methods, however, are constrained to process plain
text and do not support such a mechanism. This motivates us to introduce PASTA
- Post-hoc Attention STeering Approach, a method that allows LLMs to read text
with user-specified emphasis marks. To this end, PASTA identifies a small
subset of attention heads and applies precise attention reweighting on them,
directing the model attention to user-specified parts. Like prompting, PASTA is
applied at inference time and does not require changing any model parameters.
Experiments demonstrate that PASTA can substantially enhance an LLM's ability
to follow user instructions or integrate new knowledge from user inputs,
leading to a significant performance improvement on a variety of tasks, e.g.,
an average accuracy improvement of 22% for LLAMA-7B. Our code is publicly
available at https://github.com/QingruZhang/PASTA .

---

## 10. [MFTCoder: Boosting Code LLMs with Multitask Fine-Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02303)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02303](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02303)

**Organization**: CodeFuse AI

**Authors**: Bingchang Liu, Chaoyu Chen, Cong Liao, Zi Gong, Huan Wang, Zhichao Lei, Ming Liang, Dajun Chen, Min Shen, Hailian Zhou, Hang Yu, Jianguo Li

**Published**: 2023-11-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/codefuse-ai/mftcoder)

### Abstract

Code LLMs have emerged as a specialized research field, with remarkable
studies dedicated to enhancing model's coding capabilities through fine-tuning
on pre-trained models. Previous fine-tuning approaches were typically tailored
to specific downstream tasks or scenarios, which meant separate fine-tuning for
each task, requiring extensive training resources and posing challenges in
terms of deployment and maintenance. Furthermore, these approaches failed to
leverage the inherent interconnectedness among different code-related tasks. To
overcome these limitations, we present a multi-task fine-tuning framework,
MFTcoder, that enables simultaneous and parallel fine-tuning on multiple tasks.
By incorporating various loss functions, we effectively address common
challenges in multi-task learning, such as data imbalance, varying difficulty
levels, and inconsistent convergence speeds. Extensive experiments have
conclusively demonstrated that our multi-task fine-tuning approach outperforms
both individual fine-tuning on single tasks and fine-tuning on a mixed ensemble
of tasks. Moreover, MFTcoder offers efficient training capabilities, including
efficient data tokenization modes and PEFT fine-tuning, resulting in
significantly improved speed compared to traditional fine-tuning methods.
MFTcoder seamlessly integrates with several mainstream open-source LLMs, such
as CodeLLama and Qwen. Leveraging the CodeLLama foundation, our MFTcoder
fine-tuned model, CodeFuse-CodeLLama-34B, achieves an impressive
pass@1 score of 74.4\% on the HumaneEval benchmark, surpassing GPT-4
performance (67\%, zero-shot). MFTCoder is open-sourced at
https://github.com/codefuse-ai/MFTCOder

---

## 11. [LDM3D-VR: Latent Diffusion Model for 3D VR](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.03226)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.03226](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03226)

**Authors**: Gabriela Ben Melech Stan, Diana Wofk, Estelle Aflalo, Shao-Yen Tseng, Zhipeng Cai, Michael Paulitsch, Vasudev Lal

**Published**: 2023-11-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Latent diffusion models have proven to be state-of-the-art in the creation
and manipulation of visual outputs. However, as far as we know, the generation
of depth maps jointly with RGB is still limited. We introduce LDM3D-VR, a suite
of diffusion models targeting virtual reality development that includes
LDM3D-pano and LDM3D-SR. These models enable the generation of panoramic RGBD
based on textual prompts and the upscaling of low-resolution inputs to
high-resolution RGBD, respectively. Our models are fine-tuned from existing
pretrained models on datasets containing panoramic/high-resolution RGB images,
depth maps and captions. Both models are evaluated in comparison to existing
related methods.

---

## 12. [Co-training and Co-distillation for Quality Improvement and Compression
  of Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02849)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02849](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02849)

**Authors**: Hayeon Lee, Rui Hou, Jongpil Kim, Davis Liang, Hongbo Zhang, Sung Ju Hwang, Alexander Min

**Published**: 2023-11-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Knowledge Distillation (KD) compresses computationally expensive pre-trained
language models (PLMs) by transferring their knowledge to smaller models,
allowing their use in resource-constrained or real-time settings. However, most
smaller models fail to surpass the performance of the original larger model,
resulting in sacrificing performance to improve inference speed. To address
this issue, we propose Co-Training and Co-Distillation (CTCD), a novel
framework that improves performance and inference speed together by co-training
two models while mutually distilling knowledge. The CTCD framework successfully
achieves this based on two significant findings: 1) Distilling knowledge from
the smaller model to the larger model during co-training improves the
performance of the larger model. 2) The enhanced performance of the larger
model further boosts the performance of the smaller model. The CTCD framework
shows promise as it can be combined with existing techniques like architecture
design or data augmentation, replacing one-way KD methods, to achieve further
performance improvement. Extensive ablation studies demonstrate the
effectiveness of CTCD, and the small model distilled by CTCD outperforms the
original larger model by a significant margin of 1.66 on the GLUE benchmark.

---

## 13. [Attention or Convolution: Transformer Encoders in Audio Language Models
  for Inference Efficiency](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02772)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02772](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02772)

**Authors**: Sungho Jeon, Ching-Feng Yeh, Hakan Inan, Wei-Ning Hsu, Rashi Rungta, Yashar Mehdad, Daniel Bikel

**Published**: 2023-11-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

In this paper, we show that a simple self-supervised pre-trained audio model
can achieve comparable inference efficiency to more complicated pre-trained
models with speech transformer encoders. These speech transformers rely on
mixing convolutional modules with self-attention modules. They achieve
state-of-the-art performance on ASR with top efficiency. We first show that
employing these speech transformers as an encoder significantly improves the
efficiency of pre-trained audio models as well. However, our study shows that
we can achieve comparable efficiency with advanced self-attention solely. We
demonstrate that this simpler approach is particularly beneficial with a
low-bit weight quantization technique of a neural network to improve
efficiency. We hypothesize that it prevents propagating the errors between
different quantized modules compared to recent speech transformers mixing
quantized convolution and the quantized self-attention modules.

---

## 14. [CoVLM: Composing Visual Entities and Relationships in Large Language
  Models Via Communicative Decoding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.03354)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.03354](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03354)

**Authors**: Junyan Li, Delin Chen, Yining Hong, Zhenfang Chen, Peihao Chen, Yikang Shen, Chuang Gan

**Published**: 2023-11-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

A remarkable ability of human beings resides in compositional reasoning,
i.e., the capacity to make "infinite use of finite means". However, current
large vision-language foundation models (VLMs) fall short of such compositional
abilities due to their "bag-of-words" behaviors and inability to construct
words that correctly represent visual entities and the relations among the
entities. To this end, we propose CoVLM, which can guide the LLM to explicitly
compose visual entities and relationships among the text and dynamically
communicate with the vision encoder and detection network to achieve
vision-language communicative decoding. Specifically, we first devise a set of
novel communication tokens for the LLM, for dynamic communication between the
visual detection system and the language system. A communication token is
generated by the LLM following a visual entity or a relation, to inform the
detection network to propose regions that are relevant to the sentence
generated so far. The proposed regions-of-interests (ROIs) are then fed back
into the LLM for better language generation contingent on the relevant regions.
The LLM is thus able to compose the visual entities and relationships through
the communication tokens. The vision-to-language and language-to-vision
communication are iteratively performed until the entire sentence is generated.
Our framework seamlessly bridges the gap between visual perception and LLMs and
outperforms previous VLMs by a large margin on compositional reasoning
benchmarks (e.g., ~20% in HICO-DET mAP, ~14% in Cola top-1 accuracy, and ~3% on
ARO top-1 accuracy). We also achieve state-of-the-art performances on
traditional vision-language tasks such as referring expression comprehension
and visual question answering.

---

## 15. [Consistent4D: Consistent 360° Dynamic Object Generation from
  Monocular Video](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02848)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02848](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02848)

**Authors**: Yanqin Jiang, Li Zhang, Jin Gao, Weimin Hu, Yao Yao

**Published**: 2023-11-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

In this paper, we present Consistent4D, a novel approach for generating 4D
dynamic objects from uncalibrated monocular videos. Uniquely, we cast the
360-degree dynamic object reconstruction as a 4D generation problem,
eliminating the need for tedious multi-view data collection and camera
calibration. This is achieved by leveraging the object-level 3D-aware image
diffusion model as the primary supervision signal for training Dynamic Neural
Radiance Fields (DyNeRF). Specifically, we propose a Cascade DyNeRF to
facilitate stable convergence and temporal continuity under the supervision
signal which is discrete along the time axis. To achieve spatial and temporal
consistency, we further introduce an Interpolation-driven Consistency Loss. It
is optimized by minimizing the discrepancy between rendered frames from DyNeRF
and interpolated frames from a pre-trained video interpolation model. Extensive
experiments show that our Consistent4D can perform competitively to prior art
alternatives, opening up new possibilities for 4D dynamic object generation
from monocular videos, whilst also demonstrating advantage for conventional
text-to-3D generation tasks. Our project page is
https://consistent4d.github.io/.

---

## 16. [Tailoring Self-Rationalizers with Multi-Reward Distillation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02805)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02805](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02805)

**Authors**: Sahana Ramnath, Brihi Joshi, Skyler Hallinan, Ximing Lu, Liunian Harold Li, Aaron Chan, Jack Hessel, Yejin Choi, Xiang Ren

**Published**: 2023-11-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ink-usc/rationalemultirewarddistillation)

### Abstract

Large language models (LMs) are capable of generating free-text rationales to
aid question answering. However, prior work 1) suggests that useful
self-rationalization is emergent only at significant scales (e.g., 175B
parameter GPT-3); and 2) focuses largely on downstream performance, ignoring
the semantics of the rationales themselves, e.g., are they faithful, true, and
helpful for humans? In this work, we enable small-scale LMs (approx. 200x
smaller than GPT-3) to generate rationales that not only improve downstream
task performance, but are also more plausible, consistent, and diverse,
assessed both by automatic and human evaluation. Our method, MaRio
(Multi-rewArd RatIOnalization), is a multi-reward conditioned
self-rationalization algorithm that optimizes multiple distinct properties like
plausibility, diversity and consistency. Results on five difficult
question-answering datasets StrategyQA, QuaRel, OpenBookQA, NumerSense and QASC
show that not only does MaRio improve task accuracy, but it also improves the
self-rationalization quality of small LMs across the aforementioned axes better
than a supervised fine-tuning (SFT) baseline. Extensive human evaluations
confirm that MaRio rationales are preferred vs. SFT rationales, as well as
qualitative improvements in plausibility and consistency.

---

## 17. [Ultra-Long Sequence Distributed Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02382)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02382](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02382)

**Authors**: Xiao Wang, Isaac Lyngaas, Aristeidis Tsaris, Peng Chen, Sajal Dash, Mayanka Chandra Shekar, Tao Luo, Hong-Jun Yoon, Mohamed Wahib, John Gouley

**Published**: 2023-11-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Transformer models trained on long sequences often achieve higher accuracy
than short sequences. Unfortunately, conventional transformers struggle with
long sequence training due to the overwhelming computation and memory
requirements. Existing methods for long sequence training offer limited speedup
and memory reduction, and may compromise accuracy. This paper presents a novel
and efficient distributed training method, the Long Short-Sequence Transformer
(LSS Transformer), for training transformer with long sequences. It distributes
a long sequence into segments among GPUs, with each GPU computing a partial
self-attention for its segment. Then, it uses a fused communication and a novel
double gradient averaging technique to avoid the need to aggregate partial
self-attention and minimize communication overhead. We evaluated the
performance between LSS Transformer and the state-of-the-art Nvidia sequence
parallelism on a Wikipedia enwik8 dataset. Results show that our proposed
method lead to 5.6x faster and 10.2x more memory-efficient implementation
compared to state-of-the-art sequence parallelism on 144 Nvidia V100 GPUs.
Moreover, our algorithm scales to an extreme sequence length of 50,112 at 3,456
GPUs, achieving 161% super-linear parallel efficiency and a throughput of 32
petaflops.

---
