# Daily Papers - 2023-11-09

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-09)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [LRM: Large Reconstruction Model for Single Image to 3D](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.04400)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.04400](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04400)

**Authors**: Yicong Hong, Kai Zhang, Jiuxiang Gu, Sai Bi, Yang Zhou, Difan Liu, Feng Liu, Kalyan Sunkavalli, Trung Bui, Hao Tan

**Published**: 2023-11-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 52

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/3dtopia/openlrm)

### Abstract

We propose the first Large Reconstruction Model (LRM) that predicts the 3D
model of an object from a single input image within just 5 seconds. In contrast
to many previous methods that are trained on small-scale datasets such as
ShapeNet in a category-specific fashion, LRM adopts a highly scalable
transformer-based architecture with 500 million learnable parameters to
directly predict a neural radiance field (NeRF) from the input image. We train
our model in an end-to-end manner on massive multi-view data containing around
1 million objects, including both synthetic renderings from Objaverse and real
captures from MVImgNet. This combination of a high-capacity model and
large-scale training data empowers our model to be highly generalizable and
produce high-quality 3D reconstructions from various testing inputs including
real-world in-the-wild captures and images from generative models. Video demos
and interactable 3D meshes can be found on this website:
https://yiconghong.me/LRM/.

---

## 2. [TEAL: Tokenize and Embed ALL for Multi-modal Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.04589)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.04589](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04589)

**Authors**: Zhen Yang, Yingxue Zhang, Fandong Meng, Jie Zhou

**Published**: 2023-11-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

Despite Multi-modal Large Language Models (MM-LLMs) have made exciting
strides recently, they are still struggling to efficiently model the
interactions among multi-modal inputs and the generation in non-textual
modalities. In this work, we propose TEAL (Tokenize and Embed ALl)}, an
approach to treat the input from any modality as a token sequence and learn a
joint embedding space for all modalities. Specifically, for the input from any
modality, TEAL first discretizes it into a token sequence with the
off-the-shelf tokenizer and embeds the token sequence into a joint embedding
space with a learnable embedding matrix. MM-LLMs just need to predict the
multi-modal tokens autoregressively as the textual LLMs do. Finally, the
corresponding de-tokenizer is applied to generate the output in each modality
based on the predicted token sequence. With the joint embedding space, TEAL
enables the frozen LLMs to perform both understanding and generation tasks
involving non-textual modalities, such as image and audio. Thus, the textual
LLM can just work as an interface and maintain its high performance in textual
understanding and generation. Experiments show that TEAL achieves substantial
improvements in multi-modal understanding, and implements a simple scheme for
multi-modal generations.

---

## 3. [Holistic Evaluation of Text-To-Image Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.04287)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.04287](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04287)

**Authors**: Tony Lee, Michihiro Yasunaga, Chenlin Meng, Yifan Mai, Joon Sung Park, Agrim Gupta, Yunzhi Zhang, Deepak Narayanan, Hannah Benita Teufel, Marco Bellagente, Minguk Kang, Taesung Park, Jure Leskovec, Jun-Yan Zhu, Li Fei-Fei, Jiajun Wu, Stefano Ermon, Percy Liang

**Published**: 2023-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

The stunning qualitative improvement of recent text-to-image models has led
to their widespread attention and adoption. However, we lack a comprehensive
quantitative understanding of their capabilities and risks. To fill this gap,
we introduce a new benchmark, Holistic Evaluation of Text-to-Image Models
(HEIM). Whereas previous evaluations focus mostly on text-image alignment and
image quality, we identify 12 aspects, including text-image alignment, image
quality, aesthetics, originality, reasoning, knowledge, bias, toxicity,
fairness, robustness, multilinguality, and efficiency. We curate 62 scenarios
encompassing these aspects and evaluate 26 state-of-the-art text-to-image
models on this benchmark. Our results reveal that no single model excels in all
aspects, with different models demonstrating different strengths. We release
the generated images and human evaluation results for full transparency at
https://crfm.stanford.edu/heim/v1.1.0 and the code at
https://github.com/stanford-crfm/helm, which is integrated with the HELM
codebase.

---

## 4. [NExT-Chat: An LMM for Chat, Detection and Segmentation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.04498)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.04498](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04498)

**Authors**: Ao Zhang, Chen-Wei Xie, Yun Zheng, Wei Ji, Tat-Seng Chua

**Published**: 2023-11-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/next-chatv/next-chat)

### Abstract

The development of large language models (LLMs) has greatly advanced the
field of multimodal understanding, leading to the emergence of large multimodal
models (LMMs). In order to enhance the level of visual comprehension, recent
studies have equipped LMMs with region-level understanding capabilities by
representing object bounding box coordinates as a series of text sequences
(pixel2seq). In this paper, we introduce a novel paradigm for object location
modeling called pixel2emb method, where we ask the LMM to output the location
embeddings and then decoded by different decoders. This paradigm allows for
different location formats (such as bounding boxes and masks) to be used in
multimodal conversations Furthermore, this kind of embedding based location
modeling enables the utilization of existing practices in localization tasks,
such as detection and segmentation. In scenarios with limited resources, our
pixel2emb demonstrates superior performance compared to existing
state-of-the-art (SOTA) approaches in both the location input and output tasks
under fair comparison. Leveraging the proposed pixel2emb method, we train an
LMM named NExT-Chat and demonstrate its capability of handling multiple tasks
like visual grounding, region caption, and grounded reasoning.

---

## 5. [3DiffTection: 3D Object Detection with Geometry-Aware Diffusion Features](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.04391)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.04391](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04391)

**Authors**: Chenfeng Xu, Huan Ling, Sanja Fidler, Or Litany

**Published**: 2023-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

We present 3DiffTection, a state-of-the-art method for 3D object detection
from single images, leveraging features from a 3D-aware diffusion model.
Annotating large-scale image data for 3D detection is resource-intensive and
time-consuming. Recently, pretrained large image diffusion models have become
prominent as effective feature extractors for 2D perception tasks. However,
these features are initially trained on paired text and image data, which are
not optimized for 3D tasks, and often exhibit a domain gap when applied to the
target data. Our approach bridges these gaps through two specialized tuning
strategies: geometric and semantic. For geometric tuning, we fine-tune a
diffusion model to perform novel view synthesis conditioned on a single image,
by introducing a novel epipolar warp operator. This task meets two essential
criteria: the necessity for 3D awareness and reliance solely on posed image
data, which are readily available (e.g., from videos) and does not require
manual annotation. For semantic refinement, we further train the model on
target data with detection supervision. Both tuning phases employ ControlNet to
preserve the integrity of the original feature capabilities. In the final step,
we harness these enhanced capabilities to conduct a test-time prediction
ensemble across multiple virtual viewpoints. Through our methodology, we obtain
3D-aware features that are tailored for 3D detection and excel in identifying
cross-view point correspondences. Consequently, our model emerges as a powerful
3D detector, substantially surpassing previous benchmarks, e.g., Cube-RCNN, a
precedent in single-view 3D detection by 9.43\% in AP3D on the
Omni3D-ARkitscene dataset. Furthermore, 3DiffTection showcases robust data
efficiency and generalization to cross-domain data.

---

## 6. [GENOME: GenerativE Neuro-symbOlic visual reasoning by growing and
  reusing ModulEs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.04901)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.04901](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04901)

**Authors**: Zhenfang Chen, Rui Sun, Wenjun Liu, Yining Hong, Chuang Gan

**Published**: 2023-11-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/umass-foundation-model/genome)

### Abstract

Recent works have shown that Large Language Models (LLMs) could empower
traditional neuro-symbolic models via programming capabilities to translate
language into module descriptions, thus achieving strong visual reasoning
results while maintaining the model's transparency and efficiency. However,
these models usually exhaustively generate the entire code snippet given each
new instance of a task, which is extremely ineffective. We propose generative
neuro-symbolic visual reasoning by growing and reusing modules. Specifically,
our model consists of three unique stages, module initialization, module
generation, and module execution. First, given a vision-language task, we adopt
LLMs to examine whether we could reuse and grow over established modules to
handle this new task. If not, we initialize a new module needed by the task and
specify the inputs and outputs of this new module. After that, the new module
is created by querying LLMs to generate corresponding code snippets that match
the requirements. In order to get a better sense of the new module's ability,
we treat few-shot training examples as test cases to see if our new module
could pass these cases. If yes, the new module is added to the module library
for future reuse. Finally, we evaluate the performance of our model on the
testing set by executing the parsed programs with the newly made visual modules
to get the results. We find the proposed model possesses several advantages.
First, it performs competitively on standard tasks like visual question
answering and referring expression comprehension; Second, the modules learned
from one task can be seamlessly transferred to new tasks; Last but not least,
it is able to adapt to new visual reasoning tasks by observing a few training
examples and reusing modules.

---
