# Daily Papers - 2023-11-20

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-20)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [Rethinking Attention: Exploring Shallow Feed-Forward Neural Networks as
  an Alternative to Attention Layers in Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10642)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10642](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10642)

**Authors**: Vukasin Bozic, Danilo Dordervic, Daniele Coppola, Joseph Thommes

**Published**: 2023-11-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

This work presents an analysis of the effectiveness of using standard shallow
feed-forward networks to mimic the behavior of the attention mechanism in the
original Transformer model, a state-of-the-art architecture for
sequence-to-sequence tasks. We substitute key elements of the attention
mechanism in the Transformer with simple feed-forward networks, trained using
the original components via knowledge distillation. Our experiments, conducted
on the IWSLT2017 dataset, reveal the capacity of these "attentionless
Transformers" to rival the performance of the original architecture. Through
rigorous ablation studies, and experimenting with various replacement network
types and sizes, we offer insights that support the viability of our approach.
This not only sheds light on the adaptability of shallow feed-forward networks
in emulating attention mechanisms but also underscores their potential to
streamline complex architectures for sequence-to-sequence tasks.

---

## 2. [MetaDreamer: Efficient Text-to-3D Creation With Disentangling Geometry
  and Texture](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10123)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10123](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10123)

**Authors**: Lincong Feng, Muyu Wang, Maoyu Wang, Kuo Xu, Xiaoli Liu

**Published**: 2023-11-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Generative models for 3D object synthesis have seen significant advancements
with the incorporation of prior knowledge distilled from 2D diffusion models.
Nevertheless, challenges persist in the form of multi-view geometric
inconsistencies and slow generation speeds within the existing 3D synthesis
frameworks. This can be attributed to two factors: firstly, the deficiency of
abundant geometric a priori knowledge in optimization, and secondly, the
entanglement issue between geometry and texture in conventional 3D generation
methods.In response, we introduce MetaDreammer, a two-stage optimization
approach that leverages rich 2D and 3D prior knowledge. In the first stage, our
emphasis is on optimizing the geometric representation to ensure multi-view
consistency and accuracy of 3D objects. In the second stage, we concentrate on
fine-tuning the geometry and optimizing the texture, thereby achieving a more
refined 3D object. Through leveraging 2D and 3D prior knowledge in two stages,
respectively, we effectively mitigate the interdependence between geometry and
texture. MetaDreamer establishes clear optimization objectives for each stage,
resulting in significant time savings in the 3D generation process. Ultimately,
MetaDreamer can generate high-quality 3D objects based on textual prompts
within 20 minutes, and to the best of our knowledge, it is the most efficient
text-to-3D generation method. Furthermore, we introduce image control into the
process, enhancing the controllability of 3D generation. Extensive empirical
evidence confirms that our method is not only highly efficient but also
achieves a quality level that is at the forefront of current state-of-the-art
3D generation techniques.

---

## 3. [SelfEval: Leveraging the discriminative nature of generative models for
  evaluation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10708)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10708](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10708)

**Authors**: Sai Saketh Rambhatla, Ishan Misra

**Published**: 2023-11-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

In this work, we show that text-to-image generative models can be 'inverted'
to assess their own text-image understanding capabilities in a completely
automated manner.
  Our method, called SelfEval, uses the generative model to compute the
likelihood of real images given text prompts, making the generative model
directly applicable to discriminative tasks.
  Using SelfEval, we repurpose standard datasets created for evaluating
multimodal text-image discriminative models to evaluate generative models in a
fine-grained manner: assessing their performance on attribute binding, color
recognition, counting, shape recognition, spatial understanding.
  To the best of our knowledge SelfEval is the first automated metric to show a
high degree of agreement for measuring text-faithfulness with the gold-standard
human evaluations across multiple models and benchmarks.
  Moreover, SelfEval enables us to evaluate generative models on challenging
tasks such as Winoground image-score where they demonstrate competitive
performance to discriminative models.
  We also show severe drawbacks of standard automated metrics such as
CLIP-score to measure text faithfulness on benchmarks such as DrawBench, and
how SelfEval sidesteps these issues.
  We hope SelfEval enables easy and reliable automated evaluation for diffusion
models.

---

## 4. [I&S-ViT: An Inclusive & Stable Method for Pushing the Limit of
  Post-Training ViTs Quantization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10126)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10126](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10126)

**Authors**: Yunshan Zhong, Jiawei Hu, Mingbao Lin, Rongrong Ji

**Published**: 2023-11-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zysxmu/ias-vit)

### Abstract

Albeit the scalable performance of vision transformers (ViTs), the dense
computational costs (training & inference) undermine their position in
industrial applications. Post-training quantization (PTQ), tuning ViTs with a
tiny dataset and running in a low-bit format, well addresses the cost issue but
unluckily bears more performance drops in lower-bit cases. In this paper, we
introduce I&S-ViT, a novel method that regulates the PTQ of ViTs in an
inclusive and stable fashion. I&S-ViT first identifies two issues in the PTQ of
ViTs: (1) Quantization inefficiency in the prevalent log2 quantizer for
post-Softmax activations; (2) Rugged and magnified loss landscape in
coarse-grained quantization granularity for post-LayerNorm activations. Then,
I&S-ViT addresses these issues by introducing: (1) A novel shift-uniform-log2
quantizer (SULQ) that incorporates a shift mechanism followed by uniform
quantization to achieve both an inclusive domain representation and accurate
distribution approximation; (2) A three-stage smooth optimization strategy
(SOS) that amalgamates the strengths of channel-wise and layer-wise
quantization to enable stable learning. Comprehensive evaluations across
diverse vision tasks validate I&S-ViT' superiority over existing PTQ of ViTs
methods, particularly in low-bit scenarios. For instance, I&S-ViT elevates the
performance of 3-bit ViT-B by an impressive 50.68%.

---

## 5. [ToolTalk: Evaluating Tool-Usage in a Conversational Setting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10775)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10775](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10775)

**Authors**: Nicholas Farn, Richard Shin

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/tooltalk)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have displayed massive improvements in reason-
ing and decision-making skills and can hold natural conversations with users.
Many recent works seek to augment LLM-based assistants with external tools so
they can access private or up-to-date information and carry out actions on
behalf of users. To better measure the performance of these assistants, this
paper introduces ToolTalk, a benchmark consisting of complex user intents re-
quiring multi-step tool usage specified through dialogue. ToolTalk contains 28
tools grouped into 7 plugins, and includes a complete simulated implementa-
tion of each tool, allowing for fully automated evaluation of assistants that
rely on execution feedback. ToolTalk also emphasizes tools that externally
affect the world rather than only tools for referencing or searching
information. We evaluate GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 on ToolTalk resulting in success
rates of 26% and 50% respectively. Our analysis of the errors reveals three
major categories and suggests some future directions for improvement. We
release ToolTalk at https://github.com/microsoft/ToolTalk.

---

## 6. [Distilling and Retrieving Generalizable Knowledge for Robot Manipulation
  via Language Corrections](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10678)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10678](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10678)

**Authors**: Lihan Zha, Yuchen Cui, Li-Heng Lin, Minae Kwon, Montserrat Gonzalez Arenas, Andy Zeng, Fei Xia, Dorsa Sadigh

**Published**: 2023-11-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Stanford-ILIAD/droc)

### Abstract

Today's robot policies exhibit subpar performance when faced with the
challenge of generalizing to novel environments. Human corrective feedback is a
crucial form of guidance to enable such generalization. However, adapting to
and learning from online human corrections is a non-trivial endeavor: not only
do robots need to remember human feedback over time to retrieve the right
information in new settings and reduce the intervention rate, but also they
would need to be able to respond to feedback that can be arbitrary corrections
about high-level human preferences to low-level adjustments to skill
parameters. In this work, we present Distillation and Retrieval of Online
Corrections (DROC), a large language model (LLM)-based system that can respond
to arbitrary forms of language feedback, distill generalizable knowledge from
corrections, and retrieve relevant past experiences based on textual and visual
similarity for improving performance in novel settings. DROC is able to respond
to a sequence of online language corrections that address failures in both
high-level task plans and low-level skill primitives. We demonstrate that DROC
effectively distills the relevant information from the sequence of online
corrections in a knowledge base and retrieves that knowledge in settings with
new task or object instances. DROC outperforms other techniques that directly
generate robot code via LLMs by using only half of the total number of
corrections needed in the first round and requires little to no corrections
after two iterations. We show further results, videos, prompts and code on
https://sites.google.com/stanford.edu/droc .

---
