# Daily Papers - 2023-11-06

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-06)

Total papers: 3

---

## 1. [PPTC Benchmark: Evaluating Large Language Models for PowerPoint Task
  Completion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.01767)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.01767](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01767)

**Authors**: Yiduo Guo, Zekai Zhang, Yaobo Liang, Dongyan Zhao, Duan Nan

**Published**: 2023-11-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gydpku/pptc)

### Abstract

Recent evaluations of Large Language Models (LLMs) have centered around
testing their zero-shot/few-shot capabilities for basic natural language tasks
and their ability to translate instructions into tool APIs. However, the
evaluation of LLMs utilizing complex tools to finish multi-turn, multi-modal
instructions in a complex multi-modal environment has not been investigated. To
address this gap, we introduce the PowerPoint Task Completion (PPTC) benchmark
to assess LLMs' ability to create and edit PPT files based on user
instructions. It contains 279 multi-turn sessions covering diverse topics and
hundreds of instructions involving multi-modal operations. We also propose the
PPTX-Match Evaluation System that evaluates if LLMs finish the instruction
based on the prediction file rather than the label API sequence, thus it
supports various LLM-generated API sequences. We measure 3 closed LLMs and 6
open-source LLMs. The results show that GPT-4 outperforms other LLMs with
75.1\% accuracy in single-turn dialogue testing but faces challenges in
completing entire sessions, achieving just 6\% session accuracy. We find three
main error causes in our benchmark: error accumulation in the multi-turn
session, long PPT template processing, and multi-modality perception. These
pose great challenges for future LLM and agent systems. We release the data,
code, and evaluation system of PPTC at https://github.com/gydpku/PPTC.

---

## 2. [FLAP: Fast Language-Audio Pre-training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.01615)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.01615](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01615)

**Authors**: Ching-Feng Yeh, Po-Yao Huang, Vasu Sharma, Shang-Wen Li, Gargi Gosh

**Published**: 2023-11-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

We propose Fast Language-Audio Pre-training (FLAP), a self-supervised
approach that efficiently and effectively learns aligned audio and language
representations through masking, contrastive learning and reconstruction. For
efficiency, FLAP randomly drops audio spectrogram tokens, focusing solely on
the remaining ones for self-supervision. Through inter-modal contrastive
learning, FLAP learns to align paired audio and text representations in a
shared latent space. Notably, FLAP leverages multiple augmented views via
masking for inter-modal contrast and learns to reconstruct the masked portion
of audio tokens. Moreover, FLAP leverages large language models (LLMs) to
augment the text inputs, contributing to improved performance. These approaches
lead to more robust and informative audio-text representations, enabling FLAP
to achieve state-of-the-art (SoTA) performance on audio-text retrieval tasks on
AudioCaps (achieving 53.0% R@1) and Clotho (achieving 25.5% R@1).

---

## 3. [EmerNeRF: Emergent Spatial-Temporal Scene Decomposition via
  Self-Supervision](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.02077)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.02077](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02077)

**Authors**: Jiawei Yang, Boris Ivanovic, Or Litany, Xinshuo Weng, Seung Wook Kim, Boyi Li, Tong Che, Danfei Xu, Sanja Fidler, Marco Pavone, Yue Wang

**Published**: 2023-11-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nvlabs/emernerf)

### Abstract

We present EmerNeRF, a simple yet powerful approach for learning
spatial-temporal representations of dynamic driving scenes. Grounded in neural
fields, EmerNeRF simultaneously captures scene geometry, appearance, motion,
and semantics via self-bootstrapping. EmerNeRF hinges upon two core components:
First, it stratifies scenes into static and dynamic fields. This decomposition
emerges purely from self-supervision, enabling our model to learn from general,
in-the-wild data sources. Second, EmerNeRF parameterizes an induced flow field
from the dynamic field and uses this flow field to further aggregate
multi-frame features, amplifying the rendering precision of dynamic objects.
Coupling these three fields (static, dynamic, and flow) enables EmerNeRF to
represent highly-dynamic scenes self-sufficiently, without relying on ground
truth object annotations or pre-trained models for dynamic object segmentation
or optical flow estimation. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in
sensor simulation, significantly outperforming previous methods when
reconstructing static (+2.93 PSNR) and dynamic (+3.70 PSNR) scenes. In
addition, to bolster EmerNeRF's semantic generalization, we lift 2D visual
foundation model features into 4D space-time and address a general positional
bias in modern Transformers, significantly boosting 3D perception performance
(e.g., 37.50% relative improvement in occupancy prediction accuracy on
average). Finally, we construct a diverse and challenging 120-sequence dataset
to benchmark neural fields under extreme and highly-dynamic settings.

---
