# Daily Papers - 2023-11-03

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-03)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [FlashDecoding++: Faster Large Language Model Inference on GPUs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.01282)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.01282](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01282)

**Authors**: Ke Hong, Guohao Dai, Jiaming Xu, Qiuli Mao, Xiuhong Li, Jun Liu, Kangdi Chen, Hanyu Dong, Yu Wang

**Published**: 2023-11-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 37

### Abstract

As the Large Language Model (LLM) becomes increasingly important in various
domains. However, the following challenges still remain unsolved in
accelerating LLM inference: (1) Synchronized partial softmax update. The
softmax operation requires a synchronized update operation among each partial
softmax result, leading to ~20% overheads for the attention computation in
LLMs. (2) Under-utilized computation of flat GEMM. The shape of matrices
performing GEMM in LLM inference is flat, leading to under-utilized computation
and >50% performance loss after padding zeros in previous designs. (3)
Performance loss due to static dataflow. Kernel performance in LLM depends on
varied input data features, hardware configurations, etc. A single and static
dataflow may lead to a 50.25% performance loss for GEMMs of different shapes in
LLM inference.
  We present FlashDecoding++, a fast LLM inference engine supporting mainstream
LLMs and hardware back-ends. To tackle the above challenges, FlashDecoding++
creatively proposes: (1) Asynchronized softmax with unified max value.
FlashDecoding++ introduces a unified max value technique for different partial
softmax computations to avoid synchronization. (2) Flat GEMM optimization with
double buffering. FlashDecoding++ points out that flat GEMMs with different
shapes face varied bottlenecks. Then, techniques like double buffering are
introduced. (3) Heuristic dataflow with hardware resource adaptation.
FlashDecoding++ heuristically optimizes dataflow using different hardware
resource considering input dynamics. Due to the versatility of optimizations in
FlashDecoding++, FlashDecoding++ can achieve up to 4.86x and 2.18x speedup on
both NVIDIA and AMD GPUs compared to Hugging Face implementations.
FlashDecoding++ also achieves an average speedup of 1.37x compared to
state-of-the-art LLM inference engines on mainstream LLMs.

---

## 2. [RoboGen: Towards Unleashing Infinite Data for Automated Robot Learning
  via Generative Simulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.01455)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.01455](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01455)

**Authors**: Yufei Wang, Zhou Xian, Feng Chen, Tsun-Hsuan Wang, Yian Wang, Katerina Fragkiadaki, Zackory Erickson, David Held, Chuang Gan

**Published**: 2023-11-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

### Abstract

We present RoboGen, a generative robotic agent that automatically learns
diverse robotic skills at scale via generative simulation. RoboGen leverages
the latest advancements in foundation and generative models. Instead of
directly using or adapting these models to produce policies or low-level
actions, we advocate for a generative scheme, which uses these models to
automatically generate diversified tasks, scenes, and training supervisions,
thereby scaling up robotic skill learning with minimal human supervision. Our
approach equips a robotic agent with a self-guided propose-generate-learn
cycle: the agent first proposes interesting tasks and skills to develop, and
then generates corresponding simulation environments by populating pertinent
objects and assets with proper spatial configurations. Afterwards, the agent
decomposes the proposed high-level task into sub-tasks, selects the optimal
learning approach (reinforcement learning, motion planning, or trajectory
optimization), generates required training supervision, and then learns
policies to acquire the proposed skill. Our work attempts to extract the
extensive and versatile knowledge embedded in large-scale models and transfer
them to the field of robotics. Our fully generative pipeline can be queried
repeatedly, producing an endless stream of skill demonstrations associated with
diverse tasks and environments.

---

## 3. [Idempotent Generative Network](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.01462)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.01462](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01462)

**Authors**: Assaf Shocher, Amil Dravid, Yossi Gandelsman, Inbar Mosseri, Michael Rubinstein, Alexei A. Efros

**Published**: 2023-11-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

We propose a new approach for generative modeling based on training a neural
network to be idempotent. An idempotent operator is one that can be applied
sequentially without changing the result beyond the initial application, namely
f(f(z))=f(z). The proposed model f is trained to map a source distribution
(e.g, Gaussian noise) to a target distribution (e.g. realistic images) using
the following objectives: (1) Instances from the target distribution should map
to themselves, namely f(x)=x. We define the target manifold as the set of all
instances that f maps to themselves. (2) Instances that form the source
distribution should map onto the defined target manifold. This is achieved by
optimizing the idempotence term, f(f(z))=f(z) which encourages the range of
f(z) to be on the target manifold. Under ideal assumptions such a process
provably converges to the target distribution. This strategy results in a model
capable of generating an output in one step, maintaining a consistent latent
space, while also allowing sequential applications for refinement.
Additionally, we find that by processing inputs from both target and source
distributions, the model adeptly projects corrupted or modified data back to
the target manifold. This work is a first step towards a ``global projector''
that enables projecting any input into a target data distribution.

---

## 4. [E3 TTS: Easy End-to-End Diffusion-based Text to Speech](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00945)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00945](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00945)

**Authors**: Yuan Gao, Nobuyuki Morioka, Yu Zhang, Nanxin Chen

**Published**: 2023-11-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

We propose Easy End-to-End Diffusion-based Text to Speech, a simple and
efficient end-to-end text-to-speech model based on diffusion. E3 TTS directly
takes plain text as input and generates an audio waveform through an iterative
refinement process. Unlike many prior work, E3 TTS does not rely on any
intermediate representations like spectrogram features or alignment
information. Instead, E3 TTS models the temporal structure of the waveform
through the diffusion process. Without relying on additional conditioning
information, E3 TTS could support flexible latent structure within the given
audio. This enables E3 TTS to be easily adapted for zero-shot tasks such as
editing without any additional training. Experiments show that E3 TTS can
generate high-fidelity audio, approaching the performance of a state-of-the-art
neural TTS system. Audio samples are available at https://e3tts.github.io.

---

## 5. [In-Context Prompt Editing For Conditional Audio Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00895)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00895](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00895)

**Authors**: Ernie Chang, Pin-Jie Lin, Yang Li, Sidd Srinivasan, Gael Le Lan, David Kant, Yangyang Shi, Forrest Iandola, Vikas Chandra

**Published**: 2023-11-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Distributional shift is a central challenge in the deployment of machine
learning models as they can be ill-equipped for real-world data. This is
particularly evident in text-to-audio generation where the encoded
representations are easily undermined by unseen prompts, which leads to the
degradation of generated audio -- the limited set of the text-audio pairs
remains inadequate for conditional audio generation in the wild as user prompts
are under-specified. In particular, we observe a consistent audio quality
degradation in generated audio samples with user prompts, as opposed to
training set prompts. To this end, we present a retrieval-based in-context
prompt editing framework that leverages the training captions as demonstrative
exemplars to revisit the user prompts. We show that the framework enhanced the
audio quality across the set of collected user prompts, which were edited with
reference to the training captions as exemplars.

---

## 6. [RoboVQA: Multimodal Long-Horizon Reasoning for Robotics](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.00899)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.00899](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00899)

**Authors**: Pierre Sermanet, Tianli Ding, Jeffrey Zhao, Fei Xia, Debidatta Dwibedi, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Christine Chan, Gabriel Dulac-Arnold, Sharath Maddineni, Nikhil J Joshi, Pete Florence, Wei Han, Robert Baruch, Yao Lu, Suvir Mirchandani, Peng Xu, Pannag Sanketi, Karol Hausman, Izhak Shafran, Brian Ichter, Yuan Cao

**Published**: 2023-11-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

We present a scalable, bottom-up and intrinsically diverse data collection
scheme that can be used for high-level reasoning with long and medium horizons
and that has 2.2x higher throughput compared to traditional narrow top-down
step-by-step collection. We collect realistic data by performing any user
requests within the entirety of 3 office buildings and using multiple robot and
human embodiments. With this data, we show that models trained on all
embodiments perform better than ones trained on the robot data only, even when
evaluated solely on robot episodes. We find that for a fixed collection budget
it is beneficial to take advantage of cheaper human collection along with robot
collection. We release a large and highly diverse (29,520 unique instructions)
dataset dubbed RoboVQA containing 829,502 (video, text) pairs for
robotics-focused visual question answering. We also demonstrate how evaluating
real robot experiments with an intervention mechanism enables performing tasks
to completion, making it deployable with human oversight even if imperfect
while also providing a single performance metric. We demonstrate a single
video-conditioned model named RoboVQA-VideoCoCa trained on our dataset that is
capable of performing a variety of grounded high-level reasoning tasks in broad
realistic settings with a cognitive intervention rate 46% lower than the
zero-shot state of the art visual language model (VLM) baseline and is able to
guide real robots through long-horizon tasks. The performance gap with
zero-shot state-of-the-art models indicates that a lot of grounded data remains
to be collected for real-world deployment, emphasizing the critical need for
scalable data collection approaches. Finally, we show that video VLMs
significantly outperform single-image VLMs with an average error rate reduction
of 19% across all VQA tasks. Data and videos available at
https://robovqa.github.io

---
