# Daily Papers - 2023-11-22

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-22)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [MagicDance: Realistic Human Dance Video Generation with Motions & Facial
  Expressions Transfer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12052)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12052](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12052)

**Authors**: Di Chang, Yichun Shi, Quankai Gao, Jessica Fu, Hongyi Xu, Guoxian Song, Qing Yan, Xiao Yang, Mohammad Soleymani

**Published**: 2023-11-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/boese0601/magicdance)

### Abstract

In this work, we propose MagicDance, a diffusion-based model for 2D human
motion and facial expression transfer on challenging human dance videos.
Specifically, we aim to generate human dance videos of any target identity
driven by novel pose sequences while keeping the identity unchanged. To this
end, we propose a two-stage training strategy to disentangle human motions and
appearance (e.g., facial expressions, skin tone and dressing), consisting of
the pretraining of an appearance-control block and fine-tuning of an
appearance-pose-joint-control block over human dance poses of the same dataset.
Our novel design enables robust appearance control with temporally consistent
upper body, facial attributes, and even background. The model also generalizes
well on unseen human identities and complex motion sequences without the need
for any fine-tuning with additional data with diverse human attributes by
leveraging the prior knowledge of image diffusion models. Moreover, the
proposed model is easy to use and can be considered as a plug-in
module/extension to Stable Diffusion. We also demonstrate the model's ability
for zero-shot 2D animation generation, enabling not only the appearance
transfer from one identity to another but also allowing for cartoon-like
stylization given only pose inputs. Extensive experiments demonstrate our
superior performance on the TikTok dataset.

---

## 2. [SuGaR: Surface-Aligned Gaussian Splatting for Efficient 3D Mesh
  Reconstruction and High-Quality Mesh Rendering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12775)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12775](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12775)

**Authors**: Antoine Guédon, Vincent Lepetit

**Published**: 2023-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Anttwo/SuGaR)

### Abstract

We propose a method to allow precise and extremely fast mesh extraction from
3D Gaussian Splatting. Gaussian Splatting has recently become very popular as
it yields realistic rendering while being significantly faster to train than
NeRFs. It is however challenging to extract a mesh from the millions of tiny 3D
gaussians as these gaussians tend to be unorganized after optimization and no
method has been proposed so far. Our first key contribution is a regularization
term that encourages the gaussians to align well with the surface of the scene.
We then introduce a method that exploits this alignment to extract a mesh from
the Gaussians using Poisson reconstruction, which is fast, scalable, and
preserves details, in contrast to the Marching Cubes algorithm usually applied
to extract meshes from Neural SDFs. Finally, we introduce an optional
refinement strategy that binds gaussians to the surface of the mesh, and
jointly optimizes these Gaussians and the mesh through Gaussian splatting
rendering. This enables easy editing, sculpting, rigging, animating,
compositing and relighting of the Gaussians using traditional softwares by
manipulating the mesh instead of the gaussians themselves. Retrieving such an
editable mesh for realistic rendering is done within minutes with our method,
compared to hours with the state-of-the-art methods on neural SDFs, while
providing a better rendering quality.

---

## 3. [HierSpeech++: Bridging the Gap between Semantic and Acoustic
  Representation of Speech by Hierarchical Variational Inference for Zero-shot
  Speech Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12454)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12454](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12454)

**Authors**: Sang-Hoon Lee, Ha-Yeong Choi, Seung-Bin Kim, Seong-Whan Lee

**Published**: 2023-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sh-lee-prml/hierspeechpp)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLM)-based speech synthesis has been widely adopted in
zero-shot speech synthesis. However, they require a large-scale data and
possess the same limitations as previous autoregressive speech models,
including slow inference speed and lack of robustness. This paper proposes
HierSpeech++, a fast and strong zero-shot speech synthesizer for text-to-speech
(TTS) and voice conversion (VC). We verified that hierarchical speech synthesis
frameworks could significantly improve the robustness and expressiveness of the
synthetic speech. Furthermore, we significantly improve the naturalness and
speaker similarity of synthetic speech even in zero-shot speech synthesis
scenarios. For text-to-speech, we adopt the text-to-vec framework, which
generates a self-supervised speech representation and an F0 representation
based on text representations and prosody prompts. Then, HierSpeech++ generates
speech from the generated vector, F0, and voice prompt. We further introduce a
high-efficient speech super-resolution framework from 16 kHz to 48 kHz. The
experimental results demonstrated that the hierarchical variational autoencoder
could be a strong zero-shot speech synthesizer given that it outperforms
LLM-based and diffusion-based models. Moreover, we achieved the first
human-level quality zero-shot speech synthesis. Audio samples and source code
are available at https://github.com/sh-lee-prml/HierSpeechpp.

---

## 4. [NeuroPrompts: An Adaptive Framework to Optimize Prompts for
  Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12229)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12229](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12229)

**Authors**: Shachar Rosenman, Vasudev Lal, Phillip Howard

**Published**: 2023-11-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/intellabs/multimodal_cognitive_ai)

### Abstract

Despite impressive recent advances in text-to-image diffusion models,
obtaining high-quality images often requires prompt engineering by humans who
have developed expertise in using them. In this work, we present NeuroPrompts,
an adaptive framework that automatically enhances a user's prompt to improve
the quality of generations produced by text-to-image models. Our framework
utilizes constrained text decoding with a pre-trained language model that has
been adapted to generate prompts similar to those produced by human prompt
engineers. This approach enables higher-quality text-to-image generations and
provides user control over stylistic features via constraint set specification.
We demonstrate the utility of our framework by creating an interactive
application for prompt enhancement and image generation using Stable Diffusion.
Additionally, we conduct experiments utilizing a large dataset of
human-engineered prompts for text-to-image generation and show that our
approach automatically produces enhanced prompts that result in superior image
quality. We make our code, a screencast video demo and a live demo instance of
NeuroPrompts publicly available.

---

## 5. [PhysGaussian: Physics-Integrated 3D Gaussians for Generative Dynamics](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12198)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12198](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12198)

**Authors**: Tianyi Xie, Zeshun Zong, Yuxin Qiu, Xuan Li, Yutao Feng, Yin Yang, Chenfanfu Jiang

**Published**: 2023-11-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

We introduce PhysGaussian, a new method that seamlessly integrates physically
grounded Newtonian dynamics within 3D Gaussians to achieve high-quality novel
motion synthesis. Employing a custom Material Point Method (MPM), our approach
enriches 3D Gaussian kernels with physically meaningful kinematic deformation
and mechanical stress attributes, all evolved in line with continuum mechanics
principles. A defining characteristic of our method is the seamless integration
between physical simulation and visual rendering: both components utilize the
same 3D Gaussian kernels as their discrete representations. This negates the
necessity for triangle/tetrahedron meshing, marching cubes, "cage meshes," or
any other geometry embedding, highlighting the principle of "what you see is
what you simulate (WS^2)." Our method demonstrates exceptional versatility
across a wide variety of materials--including elastic entities, metals,
non-Newtonian fluids, and granular materials--showcasing its strong
capabilities in creating diverse visual content with novel viewpoints and
movements. Our project page is at: https://xpandora.github.io/PhysGaussian/

---

## 6. [Concept Sliders: LoRA Adaptors for Precise Control in Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12092)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12092](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12092)

**Authors**: Rohit Gandikota, Joanna Materzynska, Tingrui Zhou, Antonio Torralba, David Bau

**Published**: 2023-11-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/rohitgandikota/sliders) | [Project Page](https://sliders.baulab.info)

### Abstract

We present a method to create interpretable concept sliders that enable
precise control over attributes in image generations from diffusion models. Our
approach identifies a low-rank parameter direction corresponding to one concept
while minimizing interference with other attributes. A slider is created using
a small set of prompts or sample images; thus slider directions can be created
for either textual or visual concepts. Concept Sliders are plug-and-play: they
can be composed efficiently and continuously modulated, enabling precise
control over image generation. In quantitative experiments comparing to
previous editing techniques, our sliders exhibit stronger targeted edits with
lower interference. We showcase sliders for weather, age, styles, and
expressions, as well as slider compositions. We show how sliders can transfer
latents from StyleGAN for intuitive editing of visual concepts for which
textual description is difficult. We also find that our method can help address
persistent quality issues in Stable Diffusion XL including repair of object
deformations and fixing distorted hands. Our code, data, and trained sliders
are available at https://sliders.baulab.info/

---

## 7. [PF-LRM: Pose-Free Large Reconstruction Model for Joint Pose and Shape
  Prediction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12024)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12024](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12024)

**Authors**: Peng Wang, Hao Tan, Sai Bi, Yinghao Xu, Fujun Luan, Kalyan Sunkavalli, Wenping Wang, Zexiang Xu, Kai Zhang

**Published**: 2023-11-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

We propose a Pose-Free Large Reconstruction Model (PF-LRM) for reconstructing
a 3D object from a few unposed images even with little visual overlap, while
simultaneously estimating the relative camera poses in ~1.3 seconds on a single
A100 GPU. PF-LRM is a highly scalable method utilizing the self-attention
blocks to exchange information between 3D object tokens and 2D image tokens; we
predict a coarse point cloud for each view, and then use a differentiable
Perspective-n-Point (PnP) solver to obtain camera poses. When trained on a huge
amount of multi-view posed data of ~1M objects, PF-LRM shows strong
cross-dataset generalization ability, and outperforms baseline methods by a
large margin in terms of pose prediction accuracy and 3D reconstruction quality
on various unseen evaluation datasets. We also demonstrate our model's
applicability in downstream text/image-to-3D task with fast feed-forward
inference. Our project website is at: https://totoro97.github.io/pf-lrm .

---

## 8. [GPT4Motion: Scripting Physical Motions in Text-to-Video Generation via
  Blender-Oriented GPT Planning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12631)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12631](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12631)

**Authors**: Jiaxi Lv, Yi Huang, Mingfu Yan, Jiancheng Huang, Jianzhuang Liu, Yifan Liu, Yafei Wen, Xiaoxin Chen, Shifeng Chen

**Published**: 2023-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jiaxilv/GPT4Motion)

### Abstract

Recent advances in text-to-video generation have harnessed the power of
diffusion models to create visually compelling content conditioned on text
prompts. However, they usually encounter high computational costs and often
struggle to produce videos with coherent physical motions. To tackle these
issues, we propose GPT4Motion, a training-free framework that leverages the
planning capability of large language models such as GPT, the physical
simulation strength of Blender, and the excellent image generation ability of
text-to-image diffusion models to enhance the quality of video synthesis.
Specifically, GPT4Motion employs GPT-4 to generate a Blender script based on a
user textual prompt, which commands Blender's built-in physics engine to craft
fundamental scene components that encapsulate coherent physical motions across
frames. Then these components are inputted into Stable Diffusion to generate a
video aligned with the textual prompt. Experimental results on three basic
physical motion scenarios, including rigid object drop and collision, cloth
draping and swinging, and liquid flow, demonstrate that GPT4Motion can generate
high-quality videos efficiently in maintaining motion coherency and entity
consistency. GPT4Motion offers new insights in text-to-video research,
enhancing its quality and broadening its horizon for future explorations.

---
