# Daily Papers - 2023-11-19

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-19)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [Video-LLaVA: Learning United Visual Representation by Alignment Before
  Projection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10122)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10122](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10122)

**Authors**: Bin Lin, Bin Zhu, Yang Ye, Munan Ning, Peng Jin, Li Yuan

**Published**: 2023-11-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/PKU-YuanGroup/Video-LLaVA)

### Abstract

The Large Vision-Language Model (LVLM) has enhanced the performance of
various downstream tasks in visual-language understanding. Most existing
approaches encode images and videos into separate feature spaces, which are
then fed as inputs to large language models. However, due to the lack of
unified tokenization for images and videos, namely misalignment before
projection, it becomes challenging for a Large Language Model (LLM) to learn
multi-modal interactions from several poor projection layers. In this work, we
unify visual representation into the language feature space to advance the
foundational LLM towards a unified LVLM. As a result, we establish a simple but
robust LVLM baseline, Video-LLaVA, which learns from a mixed dataset of images
and videos, mutually enhancing each other. Video-LLaVA achieves superior
performances on a broad range of 9 image benchmarks across 5 image
question-answering datasets and 4 image benchmark toolkits. Additionally, our
Video-LLaVA also outperforms Video-ChatGPT by 5.8%, 9.9%, 18.6%, and 10.1% on
MSRVTT, MSVD, TGIF, and ActivityNet, respectively. Notably, extensive
experiments demonstrate that Video-LLaVA mutually benefits images and videos
within a unified visual representation, outperforming models designed
specifically for images or videos.

---

## 2. [Emu Video: Factorizing Text-to-Video Generation by Explicit Image
  Conditioning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10709)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10709](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10709)

**Authors**: Rohit Girdhar, Mannat Singh, Andrew Brown, Quentin Duval, Samaneh Azadi, Sai Saketh Rambhatla, Akbar Shah, Xi Yin, Devi Parikh, Ishan Misra

**Published**: 2023-11-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

We present Emu Video, a text-to-video generation model that factorizes the
generation into two steps: first generating an image conditioned on the text,
and then generating a video conditioned on the text and the generated image. We
identify critical design decisions--adjusted noise schedules for diffusion, and
multi-stage training--that enable us to directly generate high quality and high
resolution videos, without requiring a deep cascade of models as in prior work.
In human evaluations, our generated videos are strongly preferred in quality
compared to all prior work--81% vs. Google's Imagen Video, 90% vs. Nvidia's
PYOCO, and 96% vs. Meta's Make-A-Video. Our model outperforms commercial
solutions such as RunwayML's Gen2 and Pika Labs. Finally, our factorizing
approach naturally lends itself to animating images based on a user's text
prompt, where our generations are preferred 96% over prior work.

---

## 3. [Camels in a Changing Climate: Enhancing LM Adaptation with Tulu 2](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10702)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10702](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10702)

**Authors**: Hamish Ivison, Yizhong Wang, Valentina Pyatkin, Nathan Lambert, Matthew Peters, Pradeep Dasigi, Joel Jang, David Wadden, Noah A. Smith, Iz Beltagy, Hannaneh Hajishirzi

**Published**: 2023-11-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Since the release of T\"ULU [Wang et al., 2023b], open resources for
instruction tuning have developed quickly, from better base models to new
finetuning techniques. We test and incorporate a number of these advances into
T\"ULU, resulting in T\"ULU 2, a suite of improved T\"ULU models for advancing
the understanding and best practices of adapting pretrained language models to
downstream tasks and user preferences. Concretely, we release: (1)
T\"ULU-V2-mix, an improved collection of high-quality instruction datasets; (2)
T\"ULU 2, LLAMA-2 models finetuned on the V2 mixture; (3) T\"ULU 2+DPO, T\"ULU
2 models trained with direct preference optimization (DPO), including the
largest DPO-trained model to date (T\"ULU 2+DPO 70B); (4) CODE T\"ULU 2, CODE
LLAMA models finetuned on our V2 mix that outperform CODE LLAMA and its
instruction-tuned variant, CODE LLAMA-Instruct. Our evaluation from multiple
perspectives shows that the T\"ULU 2 suite achieves state-of-the-art
performance among open models and matches or exceeds the performance of
GPT-3.5-turbo-0301 on several benchmarks. We release all the checkpoints, data,
training and evaluation code to facilitate future open efforts on adapting
large language models.

---

## 4. [Testing Language Model Agents Safely in the Wild](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10538)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10538](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10538)

**Authors**: Silen Naihin, David Atkinson, Marc Green, Merwane Hamadi, Craig Swift, Douglas Schonholtz, Adam Tauman Kalai, David Bau

**Published**: 2023-11-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

A prerequisite for safe autonomy-in-the-wild is safe testing-in-the-wild. Yet
real-world autonomous tests face several unique safety challenges, both due to
the possibility of causing harm during a test, as well as the risk of
encountering new unsafe agent behavior through interactions with real-world and
potentially malicious actors. We propose a framework for conducting safe
autonomous agent tests on the open internet: agent actions are audited by a
context-sensitive monitor that enforces a stringent safety boundary to stop an
unsafe test, with suspect behavior ranked and logged to be examined by humans.
We a design a basic safety monitor that is flexible enough to monitor existing
LLM agents, and, using an adversarial simulated agent, we measure its ability
to identify and stop unsafe situations. Then we apply the safety monitor on a
battery of real-world tests of AutoGPT, and we identify several limitations and
challenges that will face the creation of safe in-the-wild tests as autonomous
agents grow more capable.

---

## 5. [VideoCon: Robust Video-Language Alignment via Contrast Captions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10111)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10111](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10111)

**Authors**: Hritik Bansal, Yonatan Bitton, Idan Szpektor, Kai-Wei Chang, Aditya Grover

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hritikbansal/videocon)

### Abstract

Despite being (pre)trained on a massive amount of data, state-of-the-art
video-language alignment models are not robust to semantically-plausible
contrastive changes in the video captions. Our work addresses this by
identifying a broad spectrum of contrast misalignments, such as replacing
entities, actions, and flipping event order, which alignment models should be
robust against. To this end, we introduce the VideoCon, a video-language
alignment dataset constructed by a large language model that generates
plausible contrast video captions and explanations for differences between
original and contrast video captions. Then, a generative video-language model
is finetuned with VideoCon to assess video-language entailment and generate
explanations. Our VideoCon-based alignment model significantly outperforms
current models. It exhibits a 12-point increase in AUC for the video-language
alignment task on human-generated contrast captions. Finally, our model sets
new state of the art zero-shot performance in temporally-extensive
video-language tasks such as text-to-video retrieval (SSv2-Temporal) and video
question answering (ATP-Hard). Moreover, our model shows superior performance
on novel videos and human-crafted captions and explanations. Our code and data
are available at https://github.com/Hritikbansal/videocon.

---

## 6. [UnifiedVisionGPT: Streamlining Vision-Oriented AI through Generalized
  Multimodal Framework](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10125)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10125](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10125)

**Authors**: Chris Kelly, Luhui Hu, Cindy Yang, Yu Tian, Deshun Yang, Bang Yang, Zaoshan Huang, Zihao Li, Yuexian Zou

**Published**: 2023-11-16 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lhbuilder/sa-segment-anything)

### Abstract

In the current landscape of artificial intelligence, foundation models serve
as the bedrock for advancements in both language and vision domains. OpenAI
GPT-4 has emerged as the pinnacle in large language models (LLMs), while the
computer vision (CV) domain boasts a plethora of state-of-the-art (SOTA) models
such as Meta's SAM and DINO, and YOLOS. However, the financial and
computational burdens of training new models from scratch remain a significant
barrier to progress. In response to this challenge, we introduce
UnifiedVisionGPT, a novel framework designed to consolidate and automate the
integration of SOTA vision models, thereby facilitating the development of
vision-oriented AI. UnifiedVisionGPT distinguishes itself through four key
features: (1) provides a versatile multimodal framework adaptable to a wide
range of applications, building upon the strengths of multimodal foundation
models; (2) seamlessly integrates various SOTA vision models to create a
comprehensive multimodal platform, capitalizing on the best components of each
model; (3) prioritizes vision-oriented AI, ensuring a more rapid progression in
the CV domain compared to the current trajectory of LLMs; and (4) introduces
automation in the selection of SOTA vision models, generating optimal results
based on diverse multimodal inputs such as text prompts and images. This paper
outlines the architecture and capabilities of UnifiedVisionGPT, demonstrating
its potential to revolutionize the field of computer vision through enhanced
efficiency, versatility, generalization, and performance. Our implementation,
along with the unified multimodal framework and comprehensive dataset, is made
publicly available at https://github.com/LHBuilder/SA-Segment-Anything.

---
