# Daily Papers - 2023-11-23

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-23)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [GAIA: a benchmark for General AI Assistants](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12983)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12983](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12983)

**Authors**: Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Craig Swift, Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, Thomas Scialom

**Published**: 2023-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 246

### Abstract

We introduce GAIA, a benchmark for General AI Assistants that, if solved,
would represent a milestone in AI research. GAIA proposes real-world questions
that require a set of fundamental abilities such as reasoning, multi-modality
handling, web browsing, and generally tool-use proficiency. GAIA questions are
conceptually simple for humans yet challenging for most advanced AIs: we show
that human respondents obtain 92\% vs. 15\% for GPT-4 equipped with plugins.
This notable performance disparity contrasts with the recent trend of LLMs
outperforming humans on tasks requiring professional skills in e.g. law or
chemistry. GAIA's philosophy departs from the current trend in AI benchmarks
suggesting to target tasks that are ever more difficult for humans. We posit
that the advent of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) hinges on a system's
capability to exhibit similar robustness as the average human does on such
questions. Using GAIA's methodology, we devise 466 questions and their answer.
We release our questions while retaining answers to 300 of them to power a
leader-board available at https://huggingface.co/gaia-benchmark.

---

## 2. [FusionFrames: Efficient Architectural Aspects for Text-to-Video
  Generation Pipeline](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.13073)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.13073](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13073)

**Authors**: Vladimir Arkhipkin, Zein Shaheen, Viacheslav Vasilev, Elizaveta Dakhova, Andrey Kuznetsov, Denis Dimitrov

**Published**: 2023-11-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 58

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ai-forever/kandinskyvideo)

### Abstract

Multimedia generation approaches occupy a prominent place in artificial
intelligence research. Text-to-image models achieved high-quality results over
the last few years. However, video synthesis methods recently started to
develop. This paper presents a new two-stage latent diffusion text-to-video
generation architecture based on the text-to-image diffusion model. The first
stage concerns keyframes synthesis to figure the storyline of a video, while
the second one is devoted to interpolation frames generation to make movements
of the scene and objects smooth. We compare several temporal conditioning
approaches for keyframes generation. The results show the advantage of using
separate temporal blocks over temporal layers in terms of metrics reflecting
video generation quality aspects and human preference. The design of our
interpolation model significantly reduces computational costs compared to other
masked frame interpolation approaches. Furthermore, we evaluate different
configurations of MoVQ-based video decoding scheme to improve consistency and
achieve higher PSNR, SSIM, MSE, and LPIPS scores. Finally, we compare our
pipeline with existing solutions and achieve top-2 scores overall and top-1
among open-source solutions: CLIPSIM = 0.2976 and FVD = 433.054. Project page:
https://ai-forever.github.io/kandinsky-video/

---

## 3. [LucidDreamer: Domain-free Generation of 3D Gaussian Splatting Scenes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.13384)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.13384](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13384)

**Authors**: Jaeyoung Chung, Suyoung Lee, Hyeongjin Nam, Jaerin Lee, Kyoung Mu Lee

**Published**: 2023-11-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 53

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/luciddreamer-cvlab/LucidDreamer)

### Abstract

With the widespread usage of VR devices and contents, demands for 3D scene
generation techniques become more popular. Existing 3D scene generation models,
however, limit the target scene to specific domain, primarily due to their
training strategies using 3D scan dataset that is far from the real-world. To
address such limitation, we propose LucidDreamer, a domain-free scene
generation pipeline by fully leveraging the power of existing large-scale
diffusion-based generative model. Our LucidDreamer has two alternate steps:
Dreaming and Alignment. First, to generate multi-view consistent images from
inputs, we set the point cloud as a geometrical guideline for each image
generation. Specifically, we project a portion of point cloud to the desired
view and provide the projection as a guidance for inpainting using the
generative model. The inpainted images are lifted to 3D space with estimated
depth maps, composing a new points. Second, to aggregate the new points into
the 3D scene, we propose an aligning algorithm which harmoniously integrates
the portions of newly generated 3D scenes. The finally obtained 3D scene serves
as initial points for optimizing Gaussian splats. LucidDreamer produces
Gaussian splats that are highly-detailed compared to the previous 3D scene
generation methods, with no constraint on domain of the target scene.

---

## 4. [Diffusion Model Alignment Using Direct Preference Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12908)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12908](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12908)

**Authors**: Bram Wallace, Meihua Dang, Rafael Rafailov, Linqi Zhou, Aaron Lou, Senthil Purushwalkam, Stefano Ermon, Caiming Xiong, Shafiq Joty, Nikhil Naik

**Published**: 2023-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 49

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SalesforceAIResearch/DiffusionDPO)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are fine-tuned using human comparison data with
Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) methods to make them better
aligned with users' preferences. In contrast to LLMs, human preference learning
has not been widely explored in text-to-image diffusion models; the best
existing approach is to fine-tune a pretrained model using carefully curated
high quality images and captions to improve visual appeal and text alignment.
We propose Diffusion-DPO, a method to align diffusion models to human
preferences by directly optimizing on human comparison data. Diffusion-DPO is
adapted from the recently developed Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), a
simpler alternative to RLHF which directly optimizes a policy that best
satisfies human preferences under a classification objective. We re-formulate
DPO to account for a diffusion model notion of likelihood, utilizing the
evidence lower bound to derive a differentiable objective. Using the Pick-a-Pic
dataset of 851K crowdsourced pairwise preferences, we fine-tune the base model
of the state-of-the-art Stable Diffusion XL (SDXL)-1.0 model with
Diffusion-DPO. Our fine-tuned base model significantly outperforms both base
SDXL-1.0 and the larger SDXL-1.0 model consisting of an additional refinement
model in human evaluation, improving visual appeal and prompt alignment. We
also develop a variant that uses AI feedback and has comparable performance to
training on human preferences, opening the door for scaling of diffusion model
alignment methods.

---

## 5. [ZipLoRA: Any Subject in Any Style by Effectively Merging LoRAs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.13600)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.13600](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13600)

**Authors**: Viraj Shah, Nataniel Ruiz, Forrester Cole, Erika Lu, Svetlana Lazebnik, Yuanzhen Li, Varun Jampani

**Published**: 2023-11-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 47

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mkshing/ziplora-pytorch)

### Abstract

Methods for finetuning generative models for concept-driven personalization
generally achieve strong results for subject-driven or style-driven generation.
Recently, low-rank adaptations (LoRA) have been proposed as a
parameter-efficient way of achieving concept-driven personalization. While
recent work explores the combination of separate LoRAs to achieve joint
generation of learned styles and subjects, existing techniques do not reliably
address the problem; they often compromise either subject fidelity or style
fidelity. We propose ZipLoRA, a method to cheaply and effectively merge
independently trained style and subject LoRAs in order to achieve generation of
any user-provided subject in any user-provided style. Experiments on a wide
range of subject and style combinations show that ZipLoRA can generate
compelling results with meaningful improvements over baselines in subject and
style fidelity while preserving the ability to recontextualize. Project page:
https://ziplora.github.io

---

## 6. [Using Human Feedback to Fine-tune Diffusion Models without Any Reward
  Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.13231)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.13231](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13231)

**Authors**: Kai Yang, Jian Tao, Jiafei Lyu, Chunjiang Ge, Jiaxin Chen, Qimai Li, Weihan Shen, Xiaolong Zhu, Xiu Li

**Published**: 2023-11-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yk7333/d3po)

### Abstract

Using reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF) has shown significant
promise in fine-tuning diffusion models. Previous methods start by training a
reward model that aligns with human preferences, then leverage RL techniques to
fine-tune the underlying models. However, crafting an efficient reward model
demands extensive datasets, optimal architecture, and manual hyperparameter
tuning, making the process both time and cost-intensive. The direct preference
optimization (DPO) method, effective in fine-tuning large language models,
eliminates the necessity for a reward model. However, the extensive GPU memory
requirement of the diffusion model's denoising process hinders the direct
application of the DPO method. To address this issue, we introduce the Direct
Preference for Denoising Diffusion Policy Optimization (D3PO) method to
directly fine-tune diffusion models. The theoretical analysis demonstrates that
although D3PO omits training a reward model, it effectively functions as the
optimal reward model trained using human feedback data to guide the learning
process. This approach requires no training of a reward model, proving to be
more direct, cost-effective, and minimizing computational overhead. In
experiments, our method uses the relative scale of objectives as a proxy for
human preference, delivering comparable results to methods using ground-truth
rewards. Moreover, D3PO demonstrates the ability to reduce image distortion
rates and generate safer images, overcoming challenges lacking robust reward
models.

---

## 7. [Visual In-Context Prompting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.13601)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.13601](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13601)

**Authors**: Feng Li, Qing Jiang, Hao Zhang, Tianhe Ren, Shilong Liu, Xueyan Zou, Huaizhe Xu, Hongyang Li, Chunyuan Li, Jianwei Yang, Lei Zhang

**Published**: 2023-11-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ux-decoder/dinov)

### Abstract

In-context prompting in large language models (LLMs) has become a prevalent
approach to improve zero-shot capabilities, but this idea is less explored in
the vision domain. Existing visual prompting methods focus on referring
segmentation to segment the most relevant object, falling short of addressing
many generic vision tasks like open-set segmentation and detection. In this
paper, we introduce a universal visual in-context prompting framework for both
tasks. In particular, we build on top of an encoder-decoder architecture, and
develop a versatile prompt encoder to support a variety of prompts like
strokes, boxes, and points. We further enhance it to take an arbitrary number
of reference image segments as the context. Our extensive explorations show
that the proposed visual in-context prompting elicits extraordinary referring
and generic segmentation capabilities to refer and detect, yielding competitive
performance to close-set in-domain datasets and showing promising results on
many open-set segmentation datasets. By joint training on COCO and SA-1B, our
model achieves 57.7 PQ on COCO and 23.2 PQ on ADE20K. Code will be
available at https://github.com/UX-Decoder/DINOv.

---

## 8. [PG-Video-LLaVA: Pixel Grounding Large Video-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.13435)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.13435](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13435)

**Authors**: Shehan Munasinghe, Rusiru Thushara, Muhammad Maaz, Hanoona Abdul Rasheed, Salman Khan, Mubarak Shah, Fahad Khan

**Published**: 2023-11-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/video-llava)

### Abstract

Extending image-based Large Multimodal Models (LMM) to videos is challenging
due to the inherent complexity of video data. The recent approaches extending
image-based LMM to videos either lack the grounding capabilities (e.g.,
VideoChat, Video-ChatGPT, Video-LLaMA) or do not utilize the audio-signals for
better video understanding (e.g., Video-ChatGPT). Addressing these gaps, we
propose Video-LLaVA, the first LMM with pixel-level grounding capability,
integrating audio cues by transcribing them into text to enrich video-context
understanding. Our framework uses an off-the-shelf tracker and a novel
grounding module, enabling it to spatially and temporally localize objects in
videos following user instructions. We evaluate Video-LLaVA using video-based
generative and question-answering benchmarks and introduce new benchmarks
specifically designed to measure prompt-based object grounding performance in
videos. Further, we propose the use of Vicuna over GPT-3.5, as utilized in
Video-ChatGPT, for video-based conversation benchmarking, ensuring
reproducibility of results which is a concern with the proprietary nature of
GPT-3.5. Our framework builds on SoTA image-based LLaVA model and extends its
advantages to the video domain, delivering promising gains on video-based
conversation and grounding tasks. Project Page:
https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/Video-LLaVA

---

## 9. [Diffusion360: Seamless 360 Degree Panoramic Image Generation based on
  Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.13141)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.13141](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13141)

**Authors**: Mengyang Feng, Jinlin Liu, Miaomiao Cui, Xuansong Xie

**Published**: 2023-11-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/archerfmy/sd-t2i-360panoimage)

### Abstract

This is a technical report on the 360-degree panoramic image generation task
based on diffusion models. Unlike ordinary 2D images, 360-degree panoramic
images capture the entire 360^circtimes 180^circ field of view. So the
rightmost and the leftmost sides of the 360 panoramic image should be
continued, which is the main challenge in this field. However, the current
diffusion pipeline is not appropriate for generating such a seamless 360-degree
panoramic image. To this end, we propose a circular blending strategy on both
the denoising and VAE decoding stages to maintain the geometry continuity.
Based on this, we present two models for Text-to-360-panoramas and
Single-Image-to-360-panoramas tasks. The code has been released as an
open-source project at
https://github.com/ArcherFMY/SD-T2I-360PanoImage{https://github.com/ArcherFMY/SD-T2I-360PanoImage}
and
https://www.modelscope.cn/models/damo/cv_diffusion_text-to-360panorama-image_generation/summary{ModelScope}

---
