# Daily Papers - 2023-11-21

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-11-21)

Total papers: 15

---

## 1. [Exponentially Faster Language Modelling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10770)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10770](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10770)

**Authors**: Peter Belcak, Roger Wattenhofer

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 119

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pbelcak/fastbert)

### Abstract

Language models only really need to use an exponential fraction of their
neurons for individual inferences. As proof, we present FastBERT, a BERT
variant that uses 0.3\% of its neurons during inference while performing on par
with similar BERT models. FastBERT selectively engages just 12 out of 4095
neurons for each layer inference. This is achieved by replacing feedforward
networks with fast feedforward networks (FFFs). While no truly efficient
implementation currently exists to unlock the full acceleration potential of
conditional neural execution, we provide high-level CPU code achieving 78x
speedup over the optimized baseline feedforward implementation, and a PyTorch
implementation delivering 40x speedup over the equivalent batched feedforward
inference. We publish our training code, benchmarking setup, and model weights.

---

## 2. [Orca 2: Teaching Small Language Models How to Reason](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.11045)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.11045](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11045)

**Authors**: Arindam Mitra, Luciano Del Corro, Shweti Mahajan, Andres Codas, Clarisse Simoes, Sahaj Agrawal, Xuxi Chen, Anastasia Razdaibiedina, Erik Jones, Kriti Aggarwal, Hamid Palangi, Guoqing Zheng, Corby Rosset, Hamed Khanpour, Ahmed Awadallah

**Published**: 2023-11-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 77

### Abstract

Orca 1 learns from rich signals, such as explanation traces, allowing it to
outperform conventional instruction-tuned models on benchmarks like BigBench
Hard and AGIEval. In Orca 2, we continue exploring how improved training
signals can enhance smaller LMs' reasoning abilities. Research on training
small LMs has often relied on imitation learning to replicate the output of
more capable models. We contend that excessive emphasis on imitation may
restrict the potential of smaller models. We seek to teach small LMs to employ
different solution strategies for different tasks, potentially different from
the one used by the larger model. For example, while larger models might
provide a direct answer to a complex task, smaller models may not have the same
capacity. In Orca 2, we teach the model various reasoning techniques
(step-by-step, recall then generate, recall-reason-generate, direct answer,
etc.). More crucially, we aim to help the model learn to determine the most
effective solution strategy for each task. We evaluate Orca 2 using a
comprehensive set of 15 diverse benchmarks (corresponding to approximately 100
tasks and over 36,000 unique prompts). Orca 2 significantly surpasses models of
similar size and attains performance levels similar or better to those of
models 5-10x larger, as assessed on complex tasks that test advanced reasoning
abilities in zero-shot settings. We open-source Orca 2 to encourage further
research on the development, evaluation, and alignment of smaller LMs.

---

## 3. [Make Pixels Dance: High-Dynamic Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10982)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10982](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10982)

**Authors**: Yan Zeng, Guoqiang Wei, Jiani Zheng, Jiaxin Zou, Yang Wei, Yuchen Zhang, Hang Li

**Published**: 2023-11-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 68

### Abstract

Creating high-dynamic videos such as motion-rich actions and sophisticated
visual effects poses a significant challenge in the field of artificial
intelligence. Unfortunately, current state-of-the-art video generation methods,
primarily focusing on text-to-video generation, tend to produce video clips
with minimal motions despite maintaining high fidelity. We argue that relying
solely on text instructions is insufficient and suboptimal for video
generation. In this paper, we introduce PixelDance, a novel approach based on
diffusion models that incorporates image instructions for both the first and
last frames in conjunction with text instructions for video generation.
Comprehensive experimental results demonstrate that PixelDance trained with
public data exhibits significantly better proficiency in synthesizing videos
with complex scenes and intricate motions, setting a new standard for video
generation.

---

## 4. [System 2 Attention (is something you might need too)](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.11829)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.11829](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11829)

**Authors**: Jason Weston, Sainbayar Sukhbaatar

**Published**: 2023-11-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 43

### Abstract

Soft attention in Transformer-based Large Language Models (LLMs) is
susceptible to incorporating irrelevant information from the context into its
latent representations, which adversely affects next token generations. To help
rectify these issues, we introduce System 2 Attention (S2A), which leverages
the ability of LLMs to reason in natural language and follow instructions in
order to decide what to attend to. S2A regenerates the input context to only
include the relevant portions, before attending to the regenerated context to
elicit the final response. In experiments, S2A outperforms standard
attention-based LLMs on three tasks containing opinion or irrelevant
information, QA, math word problems and longform generation, where S2A
increases factuality and objectivity, and decreases sycophancy.

---

## 5. [MultiLoRA: Democratizing LoRA for Better Multi-Task Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.11501)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.11501](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11501)

**Authors**: Yiming Wang, Yu Lin, Xiaodong Zeng, Guannan Zhang

**Published**: 2023-11-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 37

### Abstract

LoRA achieves remarkable resource efficiency and comparable performance when
adapting LLMs for specific tasks. Since ChatGPT demonstrated superior
performance on various tasks, there has been a growing desire to adapt one
model for all tasks. However, the explicit low-rank of LoRA limits the
adaptation performance in complex multi-task scenarios. LoRA is dominated by a
small number of top singular vectors while fine-tuning decomposes into a set of
less important unitary transforms. In this paper, we propose MultiLoRA for
better multi-task adaptation by reducing the dominance of top singular vectors
observed in LoRA. MultiLoRA scales LoRA modules horizontally and change
parameter initialization of adaptation matrices to reduce parameter dependency,
thus yields more balanced unitary subspaces. We unprecedentedly construct
specialized training data by mixing datasets of instruction follow, natural
language understanding, world knowledge, to cover semantically and
syntactically different samples. With only 2.5% of additional parameters,
MultiLoRA outperforms single LoRA counterparts and fine-tuning on multiple
benchmarks and model scales. Further investigation into weight update matrices
of MultiLoRA exhibits reduced dependency on top singular vectors and more
democratic unitary transform contributions.

---

## 6. [GPQA: A Graduate-Level Google-Proof Q&A Benchmark](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12022)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12022](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12022)

**Authors**: David Rein, Betty Li Hou, Asa Cooper Stickland, Jackson Petty, Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Julien Dirani, Julian Michael, Samuel R. Bowman

**Published**: 2023-11-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 36

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/idavidrein/gpqa)

### Abstract

We present GPQA, a challenging dataset of 448 multiple-choice questions
written by domain experts in biology, physics, and chemistry. We ensure that
the questions are high-quality and extremely difficult: experts who have or are
pursuing PhDs in the corresponding domains reach 65% accuracy (74% when
discounting clear mistakes the experts identified in retrospect), while highly
skilled non-expert validators only reach 34% accuracy, despite spending on
average over 30 minutes with unrestricted access to the web (i.e., the
questions are "Google-proof"). The questions are also difficult for
state-of-the-art AI systems, with our strongest GPT-4 based baseline achieving
39% accuracy. If we are to use future AI systems to help us answer very hard
questions, for example, when developing new scientific knowledge, we need to
develop scalable oversight methods that enable humans to supervise their
outputs, which may be difficult even if the supervisors are themselves skilled
and knowledgeable. The difficulty of GPQA both for skilled non-experts and
frontier AI systems should enable realistic scalable oversight experiments,
which we hope can help devise ways for human experts to reliably get truthful
information from AI systems that surpass human capabilities.

---

## 7. [Adapters: A Unified Library for Parameter-Efficient and Modular Transfer
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.11077)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.11077](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11077)

**Authors**: Clifton Poth, Hannah Sterz, Indraneil Paul, Sukannya Purkayastha, Leon Engländer, Timo Imhof, Ivan Vulić, Sebastian Ruder, Iryna Gurevych, Jonas Pfeiffer

**Published**: 2023-11-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/adapter-hub/adapters)

### Abstract

We introduce Adapters, an open-source library that unifies
parameter-efficient and modular transfer learning in large language models. By
integrating 10 diverse adapter methods into a unified interface, Adapters
offers ease of use and flexible configuration. Our library allows researchers
and practitioners to leverage adapter modularity through composition blocks,
enabling the design of complex adapter setups. We demonstrate the library's
efficacy by evaluating its performance against full fine-tuning on various NLP
tasks. Adapters provides a powerful tool for addressing the challenges of
conventional fine-tuning paradigms and promoting more efficient and modular
transfer learning. The library is available via https://adapterhub.ml/adapters.

---

## 8. [Text-to-Sticker: Style Tailoring Latent Diffusion Models for Human
  Expression](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10794)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10794](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10794)

**Authors**: Animesh Sinha, Bo Sun, Anmol Kalia, Arantxa Casanova, Elliot Blanchard, David Yan, Winnie Zhang, Tony Nelli, Jiahui Chen, Hardik Shah, Licheng Yu, Mitesh Kumar Singh, Ankit Ramchandani, Maziar Sanjabi, Sonal Gupta, Amy Bearman, Dhruv Mahajan

**Published**: 2023-11-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

We introduce Style Tailoring, a recipe to finetune Latent Diffusion Models
(LDMs) in a distinct domain with high visual quality, prompt alignment and
scene diversity. We choose sticker image generation as the target domain, as
the images significantly differ from photorealistic samples typically generated
by large-scale LDMs. We start with a competent text-to-image model, like Emu,
and show that relying on prompt engineering with a photorealistic model to
generate stickers leads to poor prompt alignment and scene diversity. To
overcome these drawbacks, we first finetune Emu on millions of sticker-like
images collected using weak supervision to elicit diversity. Next, we curate
human-in-the-loop (HITL) Alignment and Style datasets from model generations,
and finetune to improve prompt alignment and style alignment respectively.
Sequential finetuning on these datasets poses a tradeoff between better style
alignment and prompt alignment gains. To address this tradeoff, we propose a
novel fine-tuning method called Style Tailoring, which jointly fits the content
and style distribution and achieves best tradeoff. Evaluation results show our
method improves visual quality by 14%, prompt alignment by 16.2% and scene
diversity by 15.3%, compared to prompt engineering the base Emu model for
stickers generation.

---

## 9. [LucidDreamer: Towards High-Fidelity Text-to-3D Generation via Interval
  Score Matching](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.11284)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.11284](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11284)

**Authors**: Yixun Liang, Xin Yang, Jiantao Lin, Haodong Li, Xiaogang Xu, Yingcong Chen

**Published**: 2023-11-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/envision-research/luciddreamer)

### Abstract

The recent advancements in text-to-3D generation mark a significant milestone
in generative models, unlocking new possibilities for creating imaginative 3D
assets across various real-world scenarios. While recent advancements in
text-to-3D generation have shown promise, they often fall short in rendering
detailed and high-quality 3D models. This problem is especially prevalent as
many methods base themselves on Score Distillation Sampling (SDS). This paper
identifies a notable deficiency in SDS, that it brings inconsistent and
low-quality updating direction for the 3D model, causing the over-smoothing
effect. To address this, we propose a novel approach called Interval Score
Matching (ISM). ISM employs deterministic diffusing trajectories and utilizes
interval-based score matching to counteract over-smoothing. Furthermore, we
incorporate 3D Gaussian Splatting into our text-to-3D generation pipeline.
Extensive experiments show that our model largely outperforms the
state-of-the-art in quality and training efficiency.

---

## 10. [Memory Augmented Language Models through Mixture of Word Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10768)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10768](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10768)

**Authors**: Cicero Nogueira dos Santos, James Lee-Thorp, Isaac Noble, Chung-Ching Chang, David Uthus

**Published**: 2023-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Scaling up the number of parameters of language models has proven to be an
effective approach to improve performance. For dense models, increasing model
size proportionally increases the model's computation footprint. In this work,
we seek to aggressively decouple learning capacity and FLOPs through
Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) style models with large knowledge-rich vocabulary
based routing functions and experts. Our proposed approach, dubbed Mixture of
Word Experts (MoWE), can be seen as a memory augmented model, where a large set
of word-specific experts play the role of a sparse memory. We demonstrate that
MoWE performs significantly better than the T5 family of models with similar
number of FLOPs in a variety of NLP tasks. Additionally, MoWE outperforms
regular MoE models on knowledge intensive tasks and has similar performance to
more complex memory augmented approaches that often require to invoke custom
mechanisms to search the sparse memory.

---

## 11. [AutoStory: Generating Diverse Storytelling Images with Minimal Human
  Effort](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.11243)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.11243](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11243)

**Authors**: Wen Wang, Canyu Zhao, Hao Chen, Zhekai Chen, Kecheng Zheng, Chunhua Shen

**Published**: 2023-11-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aim-uofa/AutoStory)

### Abstract

Story visualization aims to generate a series of images that match the story
described in texts, and it requires the generated images to satisfy high
quality, alignment with the text description, and consistency in character
identities. Given the complexity of story visualization, existing methods
drastically simplify the problem by considering only a few specific characters
and scenarios, or requiring the users to provide per-image control conditions
such as sketches. However, these simplifications render these methods
incompetent for real applications. To this end, we propose an automated story
visualization system that can effectively generate diverse, high-quality, and
consistent sets of story images, with minimal human interactions. Specifically,
we utilize the comprehension and planning capabilities of large language models
for layout planning, and then leverage large-scale text-to-image models to
generate sophisticated story images based on the layout. We empirically find
that sparse control conditions, such as bounding boxes, are suitable for layout
planning, while dense control conditions, e.g., sketches and keypoints, are
suitable for generating high-quality image content. To obtain the best of both
worlds, we devise a dense condition generation module to transform simple
bounding box layouts into sketch or keypoint control conditions for final image
generation, which not only improves the image quality but also allows easy and
intuitive user interactions. In addition, we propose a simple yet effective
method to generate multi-view consistent character images, eliminating the
reliance on human labor to collect or draw character images.

---

## 12. [ProAgent: From Robotic Process Automation to Agentic Process Automation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.10751)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.10751](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10751)

**Authors**: Yining Ye, Xin Cong, Shizuo Tian, Jiannan Cao, Hao Wang, Yujia Qin, Yaxi Lu, Heyang Yu, Huadong Wang, Yankai Lin, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2023-11-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/openbmb/proagent)

### Abstract

From ancient water wheels to robotic process automation (RPA), automation
technology has evolved throughout history to liberate human beings from arduous
tasks. Yet, RPA struggles with tasks needing human-like intelligence,
especially in elaborate design of workflow construction and dynamic
decision-making in workflow execution. As Large Language Models (LLMs) have
emerged human-like intelligence, this paper introduces Agentic Process
Automation (APA), a groundbreaking automation paradigm using LLM-based agents
for advanced automation by offloading the human labor to agents associated with
construction and execution. We then instantiate ProAgent, an LLM-based agent
designed to craft workflows from human instructions and make intricate
decisions by coordinating specialized agents. Empirical experiments are
conducted to detail its construction and execution procedure of workflow,
showcasing the feasibility of APA, unveiling the possibility of a new paradigm
of automation driven by agents. Our code is public at
https://github.com/OpenBMB/ProAgent.

---

## 13. [TPTU-v2: Boosting Task Planning and Tool Usage of Large Language
  Model-based Agents in Real-world Systems](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.11315)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.11315](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11315)

**Authors**: Yilun Kong, Jingqing Ruan, Yihong Chen, Bin Zhang, Tianpeng Bao, Shiwei Shi, Guoqing Du, Xiaoru Hu, Hangyu Mao, Ziyue Li, Xingyu Zeng, Rui Zhao

**Published**: 2023-11-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated proficiency in addressing
tasks that necessitate a combination of task planning and the usage of external
tools that require a blend of task planning and the utilization of external
tools, such as APIs. However, real-world complex systems present three
prevalent challenges concerning task planning and tool usage: (1) The real
system usually has a vast array of APIs, so it is impossible to feed the
descriptions of all APIs to the prompt of LLMs as the token length is limited;
(2) the real system is designed for handling complex tasks, and the base LLMs
can hardly plan a correct sub-task order and API-calling order for such tasks;
(3) Similar semantics and functionalities among APIs in real systems create
challenges for both LLMs and even humans in distinguishing between them. In
response, this paper introduces a comprehensive framework aimed at enhancing
the Task Planning and Tool Usage (TPTU) abilities of LLM-based agents operating
within real-world systems. Our framework comprises three key components
designed to address these challenges: (1) the API Retriever selects the most
pertinent APIs for the user task among the extensive array available; (2) LLM
Finetuner tunes a base LLM so that the finetuned LLM can be more capable for
task planning and API calling; (3) the Demo Selector adaptively retrieves
different demonstrations related to hard-to-distinguish APIs, which is further
used for in-context learning to boost the final performance. We validate our
methods using a real-world commercial system as well as an open-sourced
academic dataset, and the outcomes clearly showcase the efficacy of each
individual component as well as the integrated framework.

---

## 14. [GPT-4V(ision) for Robotics: Multimodal Task Planning from Human
  Demonstration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12015)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.12015](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12015)

**Authors**: Naoki Wake, Atsushi Kanehira, Kazuhiro Sasabuchi, Jun Takamatsu, Katsushi Ikeuchi

**Published**: 2023-11-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

We introduce a pipeline that enhances a general-purpose Vision Language
Model, GPT-4V(ision), by integrating observations of human actions to
facilitate robotic manipulation. This system analyzes videos of humans
performing tasks and creates executable robot programs that incorporate
affordance insights. The computation starts by analyzing the videos with GPT-4V
to convert environmental and action details into text, followed by a
GPT-4-empowered task planner. In the following analyses, vision systems
reanalyze the video with the task plan. Object names are grounded using an
open-vocabulary object detector, while focus on the hand-object relation helps
to detect the moment of grasping and releasing. This spatiotemporal grounding
allows the vision systems to further gather affordance data (e.g., grasp type,
way points, and body postures). Experiments across various scenarios
demonstrate this method's efficacy in achieving real robots' operations from
human demonstrations in a zero-shot manner. The prompts of GPT-4V/GPT-4 are
available at this project page:
https://microsoft.github.io/GPT4Vision-Robot-Manipulation-Prompts/

---

## 15. [M^{2}UGen: Multi-modal Music Understanding and Generation with the
  Power of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.11255)

**ArXiv ID**: [2311.11255](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11255)

**Authors**: Atin Sakkeer Hussain, Shansong Liu, Chenshuo Sun, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2023-11-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-11-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/shansongliu/M2UGen)

### Abstract

The current landscape of research leveraging large language models (LLMs) is
experiencing a surge. Many works harness the powerful reasoning capabilities of
these models to comprehend various modalities, such as text, speech, images,
videos, etc. They also utilize LLMs to understand human intention and generate
desired outputs like images, videos, and music. However, research that combines
both understanding and generation using LLMs is still limited and in its
nascent stage. To address this gap, we introduce a Multi-modal Music
Understanding and Generation (M^{2}UGen) framework that integrates LLM's
abilities to comprehend and generate music for different modalities. The
M^{2}UGen framework is purpose-built to unlock creative potential from
diverse sources of inspiration, encompassing music, image, and video through
the use of pretrained MERT, ViT, and ViViT models, respectively. To enable
music generation, we explore the use of AudioLDM 2 and MusicGen. Bridging
multi-modal understanding and music generation is accomplished through the
integration of the LLaMA 2 model. Furthermore, we make use of the MU-LLaMA
model to generate extensive datasets that support text/image/video-to-music
generation, facilitating the training of our M^{2}UGen framework. We conduct
a thorough evaluation of our proposed framework. The experimental results
demonstrate that our model achieves or surpasses the performance of the current
state-of-the-art models.

---
