# Daily Papers - 2024-06-18

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-06-18)

Total papers: 29

---

## 1. [MMDU: A Multi-Turn Multi-Image Dialog Understanding Benchmark and
  Instruction-Tuning Dataset for LVLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11833)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11833](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11833)

**Authors**: Ziyu Liu, Tao Chu, Yuhang Zang, Xilin Wei, Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Zijian Liang, Yuanjun Xiong, Yu Qiao, Dahua Lin, Jiaqi Wang

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Jiaqi Wang

**Upvotes**: 62

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/liuziyu77/mmdu)

### Abstract

Generating natural and meaningful responses to communicate with multi-modal
human inputs is a fundamental capability of Large Vision-Language
Models(LVLMs). While current open-source LVLMs demonstrate promising
performance in simplified scenarios such as single-turn single-image input,
they fall short in real-world conversation scenarios such as following
instructions in a long context history with multi-turn and multi-images.
Existing LVLM benchmarks primarily focus on single-choice questions or
short-form responses, which do not adequately assess the capabilities of LVLMs
in real-world human-AI interaction applications. Therefore, we introduce MMDU,
a comprehensive benchmark, and MMDU-45k, a large-scale instruction tuning
dataset, designed to evaluate and improve LVLMs' abilities in multi-turn and
multi-image conversations. We employ the clustering algorithm to ffnd the
relevant images and textual descriptions from the open-source Wikipedia and
construct the question-answer pairs by human annotators with the assistance of
the GPT-4o model. MMDU has a maximum of 18k image+text tokens, 20 images, and
27 turns, which is at least 5x longer than previous benchmarks and poses
challenges to current LVLMs. Our in-depth analysis of 15 representative LVLMs
using MMDU reveals that open-source LVLMs lag behind closed-source counterparts
due to limited conversational instruction tuning data. We demonstrate that
ffne-tuning open-source LVLMs on MMDU-45k signiffcantly address this gap,
generating longer and more accurate conversations, and improving scores on MMDU
and existing benchmarks (MMStar: +1.1%, MathVista: +1.5%, ChartQA:+1.2%). Our
contributions pave the way for bridging the gap between current LVLM models and
real-world application demands. This project is available at
https://github.com/Liuziyu77/MMDU.

---

## 2. [DataComp-LM: In search of the next generation of training sets for
  language models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11794)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11794](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11794)

**Authors**: Jeffrey Li, Alex Fang, Georgios Smyrnis, Maor Ivgi, Matt Jordan, Samir Gadre, Hritik Bansal, Etash Guha, Sedrick Keh, Kushal Arora, Saurabh Garg, Rui Xin, Niklas Muennighoff, Reinhard Heckel, Jean Mercat, Mayee Chen, Suchin Gururangan, Mitchell Wortsman, Alon Albalak, Yonatan Bitton, Marianna Nezhurina, Amro Abbas, Cheng-Yu Hsieh, Dhruba Ghosh, Josh Gardner, Maciej Kilian, Hanlin Zhang, Rulin Shao, Sarah Pratt, Sunny Sanyal, Gabriel Ilharco, Giannis Daras, Kalyani Marathe, Aaron Gokaslan, Jieyu Zhang, Khyathi Chandu, Thao Nguyen, Igor Vasiljevic, Sham Kakade, Shuran Song, Sujay Sanghavi, Fartash Faghri, Sewoong Oh, Luke Zettlemoyer, Kyle Lo, Alaaeldin El-Nouby, Hadi Pouransari, Alexander Toshev, Stephanie Wang, Dirk Groeneveld, Luca Soldani, Pang Wei Koh, Jenia Jitsev, Thomas Kollar, Alexandros G. Dimakis, Yair Carmon, Achal Dave, Ludwig Schmidt, Vaishaal Shankar

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by vaishaal shankar

**Upvotes**: 55

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mlfoundations/dclm)

### Abstract

We introduce DataComp for Language Models (DCLM), a testbed for controlled
dataset experiments with the goal of improving language models. As part of
DCLM, we provide a standardized corpus of 240T tokens extracted from Common
Crawl, effective pretraining recipes based on the OpenLM framework, and a broad
suite of 53 downstream evaluations. Participants in the DCLM benchmark can
experiment with data curation strategies such as deduplication, filtering, and
data mixing at model scales ranging from 412M to 7B parameters. As a baseline
for DCLM, we conduct extensive experiments and find that model-based filtering
is key to assembling a high-quality training set. The resulting dataset,
DCLM-Baseline enables training a 7B parameter language model from scratch to
64% 5-shot accuracy on MMLU with 2.6T training tokens. Compared to MAP-Neo, the
previous state-of-the-art in open-data language models, DCLM-Baseline
represents a 6.6 percentage point improvement on MMLU while being trained with
40% less compute. Our baseline model is also comparable to Mistral-7B-v0.3 and
Llama 3 8B on MMLU (63% & 66%), and performs similarly on an average of 53
natural language understanding tasks while being trained with 6.6x less compute
than Llama 3 8B. Our results highlight the importance of dataset design for
training language models and offer a starting point for further research on
data curation.

---

## 3. [mDPO: Conditional Preference Optimization for Multimodal Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11839)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11839](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11839)

**Authors**: Fei Wang, Wenxuan Zhou, James Y. Huang, Nan Xu, Sheng Zhang, Hoifung Poon, Muhao Chen

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Fei Wang

**Upvotes**: 40

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/luka-group/mDPO)

### Abstract

Direct preference optimization (DPO) has shown to be an effective method for
large language model (LLM) alignment. Recent works have attempted to apply DPO
to multimodal scenarios but have found it challenging to achieve consistent
improvement. Through a comparative experiment, we identify the unconditional
preference problem in multimodal preference optimization, where the model
overlooks the image condition. To address this problem, we propose mDPO, a
multimodal DPO objective that prevents the over-prioritization of language-only
preferences by also optimizing image preference. Moreover, we introduce a
reward anchor that forces the reward to be positive for chosen responses,
thereby avoiding the decrease in their likelihood -- an intrinsic problem of
relative preference optimization. Experiments on two multimodal LLMs of
different sizes and three widely used benchmarks demonstrate that mDPO
effectively addresses the unconditional preference problem in multimodal
preference optimization and significantly improves model performance,
particularly in reducing hallucination.

---

## 4. [THEANINE: Revisiting Memory Management in Long-term Conversations with
  Timeline-augmented Response Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10996)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10996](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10996)

**Authors**: Seo Hyun Kim, Kai Tzu-iunn Ong, Taeyoon Kwon, Namyoung Kim, Keummin Ka, SeongHyeon Bae, Yohan Jo, Seung-won Hwang, Dongha Lee, Jinyoung Yeo

**Published**: 2024-06-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by kai tzu-iunn ong

**Upvotes**: 35

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are capable of processing lengthy dialogue
histories during prolonged interaction with users without additional memory
modules; however, their responses tend to overlook or incorrectly recall
information from the past. In this paper, we revisit memory-augmented response
generation in the era of LLMs. While prior work focuses on getting rid of
outdated memories, we argue that such memories can provide contextual cues that
help dialogue systems understand the development of past events and, therefore,
benefit response generation. We present Theanine, a framework that augments
LLMs' response generation with memory timelines -- series of memories that
demonstrate the development and causality of relevant past events. Along with
Theanine, we introduce TeaFarm, a counterfactual-driven question-answering
pipeline addressing the limitation of G-Eval in long-term conversations.
Supplementary videos of our methods and the TeaBag dataset for TeaFarm
evaluation are in https://theanine-693b0.web.app/.

---

## 5. [MeshAnything: Artist-Created Mesh Generation with Autoregressive
  Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10163)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10163](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10163)

**Authors**: Yiwen Chen, Tong He, Di Huang, Sijin Chen, Jiaxiang Tang, Xin Chen, Zhongang Cai, Lei Yang, Gang Yu, Guosheng Lin, Chi Zhang

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Chen Yiwen

**Upvotes**: 33

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/buaacyw/meshanything)

### Abstract

Recently, 3D assets created via reconstruction and generation have matched
the quality of manually crafted assets, highlighting their potential for
replacement. However, this potential is largely unrealized because these assets
always need to be converted to meshes for 3D industry applications, and the
meshes produced by current mesh extraction methods are significantly inferior
to Artist-Created Meshes (AMs), i.e., meshes created by human artists.
Specifically, current mesh extraction methods rely on dense faces and ignore
geometric features, leading to inefficiencies, complicated post-processing, and
lower representation quality. To address these issues, we introduce
MeshAnything, a model that treats mesh extraction as a generation problem,
producing AMs aligned with specified shapes. By converting 3D assets in any 3D
representation into AMs, MeshAnything can be integrated with various 3D asset
production methods, thereby enhancing their application across the 3D industry.
The architecture of MeshAnything comprises a VQ-VAE and a shape-conditioned
decoder-only transformer. We first learn a mesh vocabulary using the VQ-VAE,
then train the shape-conditioned decoder-only transformer on this vocabulary
for shape-conditioned autoregressive mesh generation. Our extensive experiments
show that our method generates AMs with hundreds of times fewer faces,
significantly improving storage, rendering, and simulation efficiencies, while
achieving precision comparable to previous methods.

---

## 6. [How Do Large Language Models Acquire Factual Knowledge During
  Pretraining?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11813)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11813](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11813)

**Authors**: Hoyeon Chang, Jinho Park, Seonghyeon Ye, Sohee Yang, Youngkyung Seo, Du-Seong Chang, Minjoon Seo

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Philipp Schmid

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kaistai/factual-knowledge-acquisition)

### Abstract

Despite the recent observation that large language models (LLMs) can store
substantial factual knowledge, there is a limited understanding of the
mechanisms of how they acquire factual knowledge through pretraining. This work
addresses this gap by studying how LLMs acquire factual knowledge during
pretraining. The findings reveal several important insights into the dynamics
of factual knowledge acquisition during pretraining. First, counterintuitively,
we observe that pretraining on more data shows no significant improvement in
the model's capability to acquire and maintain factual knowledge. Next, there
is a power-law relationship between training steps and forgetting of
memorization and generalization of factual knowledge, and LLMs trained with
duplicated training data exhibit faster forgetting. Third, training LLMs with
larger batch sizes can enhance the models' robustness to forgetting. Overall,
our observations suggest that factual knowledge acquisition in LLM pretraining
occurs by progressively increasing the probability of factual knowledge
presented in the pretraining data at each step. However, this increase is
diluted by subsequent forgetting. Based on this interpretation, we demonstrate
that we can provide plausible explanations for recently observed behaviors of
LLMs, such as the poor performance of LLMs on long-tail knowledge and the
benefits of deduplicating the pretraining corpus.

---

## 7. [VideoLLM-online: Online Video Large Language Model for Streaming Video](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11816)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11816](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11816)

**Authors**: Joya Chen, Zhaoyang Lv, Shiwei Wu, Kevin Qinghong Lin, Chenan Song, Difei Gao, Jia-Wei Liu, Ziteng Gao, Dongxing Mao, Mike Zheng Shou

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Joya Chen

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

Recent Large Language Models have been enhanced with vision capabilities,
enabling them to comprehend images, videos, and interleaved vision-language
content. However, the learning methods of these large multimodal models
typically treat videos as predetermined clips, making them less effective and
efficient at handling streaming video inputs. In this paper, we propose a novel
Learning-In-Video-Stream (LIVE) framework, which enables temporally aligned,
long-context, and real-time conversation within a continuous video stream. Our
LIVE framework comprises comprehensive approaches to achieve video streaming
dialogue, encompassing: (1) a training objective designed to perform language
modeling for continuous streaming inputs, (2) a data generation scheme that
converts offline temporal annotations into a streaming dialogue format, and (3)
an optimized inference pipeline to speed up the model responses in real-world
video streams. With our LIVE framework, we built VideoLLM-online model upon
Llama-2/Llama-3 and demonstrate its significant advantages in processing
streaming videos. For instance, on average, our model can support streaming
dialogue in a 5-minute video clip at over 10 FPS on an A100 GPU. Moreover, it
also showcases state-of-the-art performance on public offline video benchmarks,
such as recognition, captioning, and forecasting. The code, model, data, and
demo have been made available at https://showlab.github.io/videollm-online.

---

## 8. [A Simple and Effective L_2 Norm-Based Strategy for KV Cache
  Compression](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11430)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11430](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11430)

**Authors**: Alessio Devoto, Yu Zhao, Simone Scardapane, Pasquale Minervini

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Yu Zhao

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/alessiodevoto/l2compress)

### Abstract

The deployment of large language models (LLMs) is often hindered by the
extensive memory requirements of the Key-Value (KV) cache, especially as
context lengths increase. Existing approaches to reduce the KV cache size
involve either fine-tuning the model to learn a compression strategy or
leveraging attention scores to reduce the sequence length. We analyse the
attention distributions in decoder-only Transformers-based models and observe
that attention allocation patterns stay consistent across most layers.
Surprisingly, we find a clear correlation between the L_2 and the attention
scores over cached KV pairs, where a low L_2 of a key embedding usually leads
to a high attention score during decoding. This finding indicates that the
influence of a KV pair is potentially determined by the key embedding itself
before being queried. Based on this observation, we compress the KV cache based
on the L_2 of key embeddings. Our experimental results show that this simple
strategy can reduce the KV cache size by 50% on language modelling and
needle-in-a-haystack tasks and 90% on passkey retrieval tasks without losing
accuracy.

---

## 9. [GAMA: A Large Audio-Language Model with Advanced Audio Understanding and
  Complex Reasoning Abilities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11768)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11768](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11768)

**Authors**: Sreyan Ghosh, Sonal Kumar, Ashish Seth, Chandra Kiran Reddy Evuru, Utkarsh Tyagi, S Sakshi, Oriol Nieto, Ramani Duraiswami, Dinesh Manocha

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Ghosh

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

Perceiving and understanding non-speech sounds and non-verbal speech is
essential to making decisions that help us interact with our surroundings. In
this paper, we propose GAMA, a novel General-purpose Large Audio-Language Model
(LALM) with Advanced Audio Understanding and Complex Reasoning Abilities. We
build GAMA by integrating an LLM with multiple types of audio representations,
including features from a custom Audio Q-Former, a multi-layer aggregator that
aggregates features from multiple layers of an audio encoder. We fine-tune GAMA
on a large-scale audio-language dataset, which augments it with audio
understanding capabilities. Next, we propose CompA-R (Instruction-Tuning for
Complex Audio Reasoning), a synthetically generated instruction-tuning (IT)
dataset with instructions that require the model to perform complex reasoning
on the input audio. We instruction-tune GAMA with CompA-R to endow it with
complex reasoning abilities, where we further add a soft prompt as input with
high-level semantic evidence by leveraging event tags of the input audio.
Finally, we also propose CompA-R-test, a human-labeled evaluation dataset for
evaluating the capabilities of LALMs on open-ended audio question-answering
that requires complex reasoning. Through automated and expert human
evaluations, we show that GAMA outperforms all other LALMs in literature on
diverse audio understanding tasks by margins of 1%-84%. Further, GAMA IT-ed on
CompA-R proves to be superior in its complex reasoning and instruction
following capabilities.

---

## 10. [Exploring the Role of Large Language Models in Prompt Encoding for
  Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11831)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11831](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11831)

**Authors**: Bingqi Ma, Zhuofan Zong, Guanglu Song, Hongsheng Li, Yu Liu

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Zhuofan Zong

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) based on decoder-only transformers have
demonstrated superior text understanding capabilities compared to CLIP and
T5-series models. However, the paradigm for utilizing current advanced LLMs in
text-to-image diffusion models remains to be explored. We observed an unusual
phenomenon: directly using a large language model as the prompt encoder
significantly degrades the prompt-following ability in image generation. We
identified two main obstacles behind this issue. One is the misalignment
between the next token prediction training in LLM and the requirement for
discriminative prompt features in diffusion models. The other is the intrinsic
positional bias introduced by the decoder-only architecture. To deal with this
issue, we propose a novel framework to fully harness the capabilities of LLMs.
Through the carefully designed usage guidance, we effectively enhance the text
representation capability for prompt encoding and eliminate its inherent
positional bias. This allows us to integrate state-of-the-art LLMs into the
text-to-image generation model flexibly. Furthermore, we also provide an
effective manner to fuse multiple LLMs into our framework. Considering the
excellent performance and scaling capabilities demonstrated by the transformer
architecture, we further design an LLM-Infused Diffusion Transformer (LI-DiT)
based on the framework. We conduct extensive experiments to validate LI-DiT
across model size and data size. Benefiting from the inherent ability of the
LLMs and our innovative designs, the prompt understanding performance of LI-DiT
easily surpasses state-of-the-art open-source models as well as mainstream
closed-source commercial models including Stable Diffusion 3, DALL-E 3, and
Midjourney V6. The powerful LI-DiT-10B will be available after further
optimization and security checks.

---

## 11. [MINT-1T: Scaling Open-Source Multimodal Data by 10x: A Multimodal
  Dataset with One Trillion Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11271)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11271](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11271)

**Authors**: Anas Awadalla, Le Xue, Oscar Lo, Manli Shu, Hannah Lee, Etash Kumar Guha, Matt Jordan, Sheng Shen, Mohamed Awadalla, Silvio Savarese, Caiming Xiong, Ran Xu, Yejin Choi, Ludwig Schmidt

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mlfoundations/mint-1t)

### Abstract

Multimodal interleaved datasets featuring free-form interleaved sequences of
images and text are crucial for training frontier large multimodal models
(LMMs). Despite the rapid progression of open-source LMMs, there remains a
pronounced scarcity of large-scale, diverse open-source multimodal interleaved
datasets. In response, we introduce MINT-1T, the most extensive and diverse
open-source Multimodal INTerleaved dataset to date. MINT-1T comprises one
trillion text tokens and three billion images, a 10x scale-up from existing
open-source datasets. Additionally, we include previously untapped sources such
as PDFs and ArXiv papers. As scaling multimodal interleaved datasets requires
substantial engineering effort, sharing the data curation process and releasing
the dataset greatly benefits the community. Our experiments show that LMMs
trained on MINT-1T rival the performance of models trained on the previous
leading dataset, OBELICS. Our data and code will be released at
https://github.com/mlfoundations/MINT-1T.

---

## 12. [In-Context Editing: Learning Knowledge from Self-Induced Distributions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11194)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11194](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11194)

**Authors**: Siyuan Qi, Bangcheng Yang, Kailin Jiang, Xiaobo Wang, Jiaqi Li, Yifan Zhong, Yaodong Yang, Zilong Zheng

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Siyuan Qi

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bigai-ai/ICE)

### Abstract

The existing fine-tuning paradigm for language models is brittle in knowledge
editing scenarios, where the model must incorporate new information without
extensive retraining. This brittleness often results in overfitting, reduced
performance, and unnatural language generation. To address this, we propose
Consistent In-Context Editing (ICE), a novel approach that leverages the
model's in-context learning capability to tune toward a contextual distribution
rather than a one-hot target. ICE introduces a straightforward optimization
framework that includes both a target and a procedure, enhancing the robustness
and effectiveness of gradient-based tuning methods. We provide analytical
insights into ICE across four critical aspects of knowledge editing: accuracy,
locality, generalization, and linguistic quality, showing its advantages.
Experimental results across four datasets confirm the effectiveness of ICE and
demonstrate its potential for continual editing, ensuring that updated
information is incorporated while preserving the integrity of the model.

---

## 13. [LLaNA: Large Language and NeRF Assistant](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11840)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11840](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11840)

**Authors**: Andrea Amaduzzi, Pierluigi Zama Ramirez, Giuseppe Lisanti, Samuele Salti, Luigi Di Stefano

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Andrea

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have demonstrated an excellent
understanding of images and 3D data. However, both modalities have shortcomings
in holistically capturing the appearance and geometry of objects. Meanwhile,
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs), which encode information within the weights of
a simple Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), have emerged as an increasingly
widespread modality that simultaneously encodes the geometry and photorealistic
appearance of objects. This paper investigates the feasibility and
effectiveness of ingesting NeRF into MLLM. We create LLaNA, the first
general-purpose NeRF-language assistant capable of performing new tasks such as
NeRF captioning and Q\&A. Notably, our method directly processes the weights of
the NeRF's MLP to extract information about the represented objects without the
need to render images or materialize 3D data structures. Moreover, we build a
dataset of NeRFs with text annotations for various NeRF-language tasks with no
human intervention. Based on this dataset, we develop a benchmark to evaluate
the NeRF understanding capability of our method. Results show that processing
NeRF weights performs favourably against extracting 2D or 3D representations
from NeRFs.

---

## 14. [From Pixels to Prose: A Large Dataset of Dense Image Captions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10328)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10328](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10328)

**Authors**: Vasu Singla, Kaiyu Yue, Sukriti Paul, Reza Shirkavand, Mayuka Jayawardhana, Alireza Ganjdanesh, Heng Huang, Abhinav Bhatele, Gowthami Somepalli, Tom Goldstein

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Kaiyu Yue

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Training large vision-language models requires extensive, high-quality
image-text pairs. Existing web-scraped datasets, however, are noisy and lack
detailed image descriptions. To bridge this gap, we introduce PixelProse, a
comprehensive dataset of over 16M (million) synthetically generated captions,
leveraging cutting-edge vision-language models for detailed and accurate
descriptions. To ensure data integrity, we rigorously analyze our dataset for
problematic content, including child sexual abuse material (CSAM), personally
identifiable information (PII), and toxicity. We also provide valuable metadata
such as watermark presence and aesthetic scores, aiding in further dataset
filtering. We hope PixelProse will be a valuable resource for future
vision-language research. PixelProse is available at
https://huggingface.co/datasets/tomg-group-umd/pixelprose

---

## 15. [WPO: Enhancing RLHF with Weighted Preference Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11827)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11827](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11827)

**Organization**: Zoom AI

**Authors**: Wenxuan Zhou, Ravi Agrawal, Shujian Zhang, Sathish Reddy Indurthi, Sanqiang Zhao, Kaiqiang Song, Silei Xu, Chenguang Zhu

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Wenxuan Zhou

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wzhouad/wpo)

### Abstract

Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) is a promising solution to
align large language models (LLMs) more closely with human values. Off-policy
preference optimization, where the preference data is obtained from other
models, is widely adopted due to its cost efficiency and scalability. However,
off-policy preference optimization often suffers from a distributional gap
between the policy used for data collection and the target policy, leading to
suboptimal optimization. In this paper, we propose a novel strategy to mitigate
this problem by simulating on-policy learning with off-policy preference data.
Our Weighted Preference Optimization (WPO) method adapts off-policy data to
resemble on-policy data more closely by reweighting preference pairs according
to their probability under the current policy. This method not only addresses
the distributional gap problem but also enhances the optimization process
without incurring additional costs. We validate our method on instruction
following benchmarks including Alpaca Eval 2 and MT-bench. WPO not only
outperforms Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) by up to 5.6% on Alpaca Eval 2
but also establishes a remarkable length-controlled winning rate against
GPT-4-turbo of 48.6% based on Llama-3-8B-Instruct, making it the strongest 8B
model on the leaderboard. We will release the code and models at
https://github.com/wzhouad/WPO.

---

## 16. [Pandora: Towards General World Model with Natural Language Actions and
  Video States](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.09455)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.09455](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09455)

**Authors**: Jiannan Xiang, Guangyi Liu, Yi Gu, Qiyue Gao, Yuting Ning, Yuheng Zha, Zeyu Feng, Tianhua Tao, Shibo Hao, Yemin Shi, Zhengzhong Liu, Eric P. Xing, Zhiting Hu

**Published**: 2024-06-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Jiannan Xiang

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/maitrix-org/Pandora)

### Abstract

World models simulate future states of the world in response to different
actions. They facilitate interactive content creation and provides a foundation
for grounded, long-horizon reasoning. Current foundation models do not fully
meet the capabilities of general world models: large language models (LLMs) are
constrained by their reliance on language modality and their limited
understanding of the physical world, while video models lack interactive action
control over the world simulations. This paper makes a step towards building a
general world model by introducing Pandora, a hybrid autoregressive-diffusion
model that simulates world states by generating videos and allows real-time
control with free-text actions. Pandora achieves domain generality, video
consistency, and controllability through large-scale pretraining and
instruction tuning. Crucially, Pandora bypasses the cost of
training-from-scratch by integrating a pretrained LLM (7B) and a pretrained
video model, requiring only additional lightweight finetuning. We illustrate
extensive outputs by Pandora across diverse domains (indoor/outdoor,
natural/urban, human/robot, 2D/3D, etc.). The results indicate great potential
of building stronger general world models with larger-scale training.

---

## 17. [WildVision: Evaluating Vision-Language Models in the Wild with Human
  Preferences](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11069)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11069](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11069)

**Authors**: Yujie Lu, Dongfu Jiang, Wenhu Chen, William Yang Wang, Yejin Choi, Bill Yuchen Lin

**Published**: 2024-06-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Bill Yuchen Lin

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Recent breakthroughs in vision-language models (VLMs) emphasize the necessity
of benchmarking human preferences in real-world multimodal interactions. To
address this gap, we launched WildVision-Arena (WV-Arena), an online platform
that collects human preferences to evaluate VLMs. We curated WV-Bench by
selecting 500 high-quality samples from 8,000 user submissions in WV-Arena.
WV-Bench uses GPT-4 as the judge to compare each VLM with Claude-3-Sonnet,
achieving a Spearman correlation of 0.94 with the WV-Arena Elo. This
significantly outperforms other benchmarks like MMVet, MMMU, and MMStar.
  Our comprehensive analysis of 20K real-world interactions reveals important
insights into the failure cases of top-performing VLMs. For example, we find
that although GPT-4V surpasses many other models like Reka-Flash, Opus, and
Yi-VL-Plus in simple visual recognition and reasoning tasks, it still faces
challenges with subtle contextual cues, spatial reasoning, visual imagination,
and expert domain knowledge. Additionally, current VLMs exhibit issues with
hallucinations and safety when intentionally provoked. We are releasing our
chat and feedback data to further advance research in the field of VLMs.

---

## 18. [L4GM: Large 4D Gaussian Reconstruction Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10324)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10324](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10324)

**Authors**: Jiawei Ren, Kevin Xie, Ashkan Mirzaei, Hanxue Liang, Xiaohui Zeng, Karsten Kreis, Ziwei Liu, Antonio Torralba, Sanja Fidler, Seung Wook Kim, Huan Ling

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

We present L4GM, the first 4D Large Reconstruction Model that produces
animated objects from a single-view video input -- in a single feed-forward
pass that takes only a second. Key to our success is a novel dataset of
multiview videos containing curated, rendered animated objects from Objaverse.
This dataset depicts 44K diverse objects with 110K animations rendered in 48
viewpoints, resulting in 12M videos with a total of 300M frames. We keep our
L4GM simple for scalability and build directly on top of LGM, a pretrained 3D
Large Reconstruction Model that outputs 3D Gaussian ellipsoids from multiview
image input. L4GM outputs a per-frame 3D Gaussian Splatting representation from
video frames sampled at a low fps and then upsamples the representation to a
higher fps to achieve temporal smoothness. We add temporal self-attention
layers to the base LGM to help it learn consistency across time, and utilize a
per-timestep multiview rendering loss to train the model. The representation is
upsampled to a higher framerate by training an interpolation model which
produces intermediate 3D Gaussian representations. We showcase that L4GM that
is only trained on synthetic data generalizes extremely well on in-the-wild
videos, producing high quality animated 3D assets.

---

## 19. [Unifying Multimodal Retrieval via Document Screenshot Embedding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11251)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11251](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11251)

**Authors**: Xueguang Ma, Sheng-Chieh Lin, Minghan Li, Wenhu Chen, Jimmy Lin

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Wenhu Chen

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

In the real world, documents are organized in different formats and varied
modalities. Traditional retrieval pipelines require tailored document parsing
techniques and content extraction modules to prepare input for indexing. This
process is tedious, prone to errors, and has information loss. To this end, we
propose Document Screenshot Embedding} (DSE), a novel retrieval paradigm that
regards document screenshots as a unified input format, which does not require
any content extraction preprocess and preserves all the information in a
document (e.g., text, image and layout). DSE leverages a large vision-language
model to directly encode document screenshots into dense representations for
retrieval. To evaluate our method, we first craft the dataset of Wiki-SS, a
1.3M Wikipedia web page screenshots as the corpus to answer the questions from
the Natural Questions dataset. In such a text-intensive document retrieval
setting, DSE shows competitive effectiveness compared to other text retrieval
methods relying on parsing. For example, DSE outperforms BM25 by 17 points in
top-1 retrieval accuracy. Additionally, in a mixed-modality task of slide
retrieval, DSE significantly outperforms OCR text retrieval methods by over 15
points in nDCG@10. These experiments show that DSE is an effective document
retrieval paradigm for diverse types of documents. Model checkpoints, code, and
Wiki-SS collection will be released.

---

## 20. [Task Me Anything](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11775)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11775](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11775)

**Authors**: Jieyu Zhang, Weikai Huang, Zixian Ma, Oscar Michel, Dong He, Tanmay Gupta, Wei-Chiu Ma, Ali Farhadi, Aniruddha Kembhavi, Ranjay Krishna

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Jieyu Zhang

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jieyuz2/taskmeanything)

### Abstract

Benchmarks for large multimodal language models (MLMs) now serve to
simultaneously assess the general capabilities of models instead of evaluating
for a specific capability. As a result, when a developer wants to identify
which models to use for their application, they are overwhelmed by the number
of benchmarks and remain uncertain about which benchmark's results are most
reflective of their specific use case. This paper introduces Task-Me-Anything,
a benchmark generation engine which produces a benchmark tailored to a user's
needs. Task-Me-Anything maintains an extendable taxonomy of visual assets and
can programmatically generate a vast number of task instances. Additionally, it
algorithmically addresses user queries regarding MLM performance efficiently
within a computational budget. It contains 113K images, 10K videos, 2K 3D
object assets, over 365 object categories, 655 attributes, and 335
relationships. It can generate 750M image/video question-answering pairs, which
focus on evaluating MLM perceptual capabilities. Task-Me-Anything reveals
critical insights: open-source MLMs excel in object and attribute recognition
but lack spatial and temporal understanding; each model exhibits unique
strengths and weaknesses; larger models generally perform better, though
exceptions exist; and GPT4o demonstrates challenges in recognizing
rotating/moving objects and distinguishing colors.

---

## 21. [Vid3D: Synthesis of Dynamic 3D Scenes using 2D Video Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11196)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11196](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11196)

**Authors**: Rishab Parthasarathy, Zack Ankner, Aaron Gokaslan

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Rishab Parthasarathy

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/rishab-partha/Vid3D)

### Abstract

A recent frontier in computer vision has been the task of 3D video
generation, which consists of generating a time-varying 3D representation of a
scene. To generate dynamic 3D scenes, current methods explicitly model 3D
temporal dynamics by jointly optimizing for consistency across both time and
views of the scene. In this paper, we instead investigate whether it is
necessary to explicitly enforce multiview consistency over time, as current
approaches do, or if it is sufficient for a model to generate 3D
representations of each timestep independently. We hence propose a model,
Vid3D, that leverages 2D video diffusion to generate 3D videos by first
generating a 2D "seed" of the video's temporal dynamics and then independently
generating a 3D representation for each timestep in the seed video. We evaluate
Vid3D against two state-of-the-art 3D video generation methods and find that
Vid3D is achieves comparable results despite not explicitly modeling 3D
temporal dynamics. We further ablate how the quality of Vid3D depends on the
number of views generated per frame. While we observe some degradation with
fewer views, performance degradation remains minor. Our results thus suggest
that 3D temporal knowledge may not be necessary to generate high-quality
dynamic 3D scenes, potentially enabling simpler generative algorithms for this
task.

---

## 22. [Just How Flexible are Neural Networks in Practice?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11463)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11463](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11463)

**Authors**: Ravid Shwartz-Ziv, Micah Goldblum, Arpit Bansal, C. Bayan Bruss, Yann LeCun, Andrew Gordon Wilson

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by shwartz ziv

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

It is widely believed that a neural network can fit a training set containing
at least as many samples as it has parameters, underpinning notions of
overparameterized and underparameterized models. In practice, however, we only
find solutions accessible via our training procedure, including the optimizer
and regularizers, limiting flexibility. Moreover, the exact parameterization of
the function class, built into an architecture, shapes its loss surface and
impacts the minima we find. In this work, we examine the ability of neural
networks to fit data in practice. Our findings indicate that: (1) standard
optimizers find minima where the model can only fit training sets with
significantly fewer samples than it has parameters; (2) convolutional networks
are more parameter-efficient than MLPs and ViTs, even on randomly labeled data;
(3) while stochastic training is thought to have a regularizing effect, SGD
actually finds minima that fit more training data than full-batch gradient
descent; (4) the difference in capacity to fit correctly labeled and
incorrectly labeled samples can be predictive of generalization; (5) ReLU
activation functions result in finding minima that fit more data despite being
designed to avoid vanishing and exploding gradients in deep architectures.

---

## 23. [Humor in AI: Massive Scale Crowd-Sourced Preferences and Benchmarks for
  Cartoon Captioning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10522)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10522](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10522)

**Authors**: Jifan Zhang, Lalit Jain, Yang Guo, Jiayi Chen, Kuan Lok Zhou, Siddharth Suresh, Andrew Wagenmaker, Scott Sievert, Timothy Rogers, Kevin Jamieson, Robert Mankoff, Robert Nowak

**Published**: 2024-06-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Jifan Zhang

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yguooo/cartoon-caption-generation)

### Abstract

We present a novel multimodal preference dataset for creative tasks,
consisting of over 250 million human ratings on more than 2.2 million captions,
collected through crowdsourcing rating data for The New Yorker's weekly cartoon
caption contest over the past eight years. This unique dataset supports the
development and evaluation of multimodal large language models and
preference-based fine-tuning algorithms for humorous caption generation. We
propose novel benchmarks for judging the quality of model-generated captions,
utilizing both GPT4 and human judgments to establish ranking-based evaluation
strategies. Our experimental results highlight the limitations of current
fine-tuning methods, such as RLHF and DPO, when applied to creative tasks.
Furthermore, we demonstrate that even state-of-the-art models like GPT4 and
Claude currently underperform top human contestants in generating humorous
captions. As we conclude this extensive data collection effort, we release the
entire preference dataset to the research community, fostering further
advancements in AI humor generation and evaluation.

---

## 24. [Evaluating Open Language Models Across Task Types, Application Domains,
  and Reasoning Types: An In-Depth Experimental Analysis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11402)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11402](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11402)

**Authors**: Neelabh Sinha, Vinija Jain, Aman Chadha

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Aman Chadha

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/neelabhsinha/lm-application-eval-kit)

### Abstract

The rapid rise of Language Models (LMs) has expanded their use in several
applications. Yet, due to constraints of model size, associated cost, or
proprietary restrictions, utilizing state-of-the-art (SOTA) LLMs is not always
feasible. With open, smaller LMs emerging, more applications can leverage their
capabilities, but selecting the right LM can be challenging. This work conducts
an in-depth experimental analysis of the semantic correctness of outputs of 10
smaller, open LMs across three aspects: task types, application domains and
reasoning types, using diverse prompt styles. We demonstrate that most
effective models and prompt styles vary depending on the specific requirements.
Our analysis provides a comparative assessment of LMs and prompt styles using a
proposed three-tier schema of aspects for their strategic selection based on
use-case and other constraints. We also show that if utilized appropriately,
these LMs can compete with, and sometimes outperform, SOTA LLMs like
DeepSeek-v2, GPT-3.5-Turbo, and GPT-4o.

---

## 25. [Breaking the Attention Bottleneck](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10906)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10906](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10906)

**Authors**: Kalle Hilsenbek

**Published**: 2024-06-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Kalle Hilsenbek

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Attention-based transformers have become the standard architecture in many
deep learning fields, primarily due to their ability to model long-range
dependencies and handle variable-length input sequences. However, the attention
mechanism with its quadratic complexity is a significant bottleneck in the
transformer architecture. This algorithm is only uni-directional in the decoder
and converges to a static pattern in over-parametrized decoder-only models. I
address this issue by developing a generative function as attention or
activation replacement. It still has the auto-regressive character by comparing
each token with the previous one. In my test setting with nanoGPT this yields a
smaller loss while having a smaller model. The loss further drops by
incorporating an average context vector. This concept of attention replacement
is distributed under the GNU AGPL v3 license at
https://gitlab.com/Bachstelze/causal_generation.

---

## 26. [HiddenTables & PyQTax: A Cooperative Game and Dataset For TableQA to
  Ensure Scale and Data Privacy Across a Myriad of Taxonomies](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10803)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10803](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10803)

**Authors**: William Watson, Nicole Cho, Tucker Balch, Manuela Veloso

**Published**: 2024-06-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by William Watson

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

A myriad of different Large Language Models (LLMs) face a common challenge in
contextually analyzing table question-answering tasks. These challenges are
engendered from (1) finite context windows for large tables, (2) multi-faceted
discrepancies amongst tokenization patterns against cell boundaries, and (3)
various limitations stemming from data confidentiality in the process of using
external models such as gpt-3.5-turbo. We propose a cooperative game dubbed
"HiddenTables" as a potential resolution to this challenge. In essence,
"HiddenTables" is played between the code-generating LLM "Solver" and the
"Oracle" which evaluates the ability of the LLM agents to solve Table QA tasks.
This game is based on natural language schemas and importantly, ensures the
security of the underlying data. We provide evidential experiments on a diverse
set of tables that demonstrate an LLM's collective inability to generalize and
perform on complex queries, handle compositional dependencies, and align
natural language to programmatic commands when concrete table schemas are
provided. Unlike encoder-based models, we have pushed the boundaries of
"HiddenTables" to not be limited by the number of rows - therefore we exhibit
improved efficiency in prompt and completion tokens. Our infrastructure has
spawned a new dataset "PyQTax" that spans across 116,671 question-table-answer
triplets and provides additional fine-grained breakdowns & labels for varying
question taxonomies. Therefore, in tandem with our academic contributions
regarding LLMs' deficiency in TableQA tasks, "HiddenTables" is a tactile
manifestation of how LLMs can interact with massive datasets while ensuring
data security and minimizing generation costs.

---

## 27. [CoLoR-Filter: Conditional Loss Reduction Filtering for Targeted Language
  Model Pre-training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10670)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10670](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10670)

**Authors**: David Brandfonbrener, Hanlin Zhang, Andreas Kirsch, Jonathan Richard Schwarz, Sham Kakade

**Published**: 2024-06-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by David Brandfonbrener

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/davidbrandfonbrener/color-filter-olmo)

### Abstract

Selecting high-quality data for pre-training is crucial in shaping the
downstream task performance of language models. A major challenge lies in
identifying this optimal subset, a problem generally considered intractable,
thus necessitating scalable and effective heuristics. In this work, we propose
a data selection method, CoLoR-Filter (Conditional Loss Reduction Filtering),
which leverages an empirical Bayes-inspired approach to derive a simple and
computationally efficient selection criterion based on the relative loss values
of two auxiliary models.
  In addition to the modeling rationale, we evaluate CoLoR-Filter empirically
on two language modeling tasks: (1) selecting data from C4 for domain
adaptation to evaluation on Books and (2) selecting data from C4 for a suite of
downstream multiple-choice question answering tasks. We demonstrate favorable
scaling both as we subselect more aggressively and using small auxiliary models
to select data for large target models. As one headline result, CoLoR-Filter
data selected using a pair of 150m parameter auxiliary models can train a 1.2b
parameter target model to match a 1.2b parameter model trained on 25b randomly
selected tokens with 25x less data for Books and 11x less data for the
downstream tasks.
  Code: https://github.com/davidbrandfonbrener/color-filter-olmo
  Filtered data:
https://huggingface.co/datasets/davidbrandfonbrener/color-filtered-c4

---

## 28. [Consistency^2: Consistent and Fast 3D Painting with Latent Consistency
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11202)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11202](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11202)

**Authors**: Tianfu Wang, Anton Obukhov, Konrad Schindler

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Anton Obukhov

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kongdai123/consistency2)

### Abstract

Generative 3D Painting is among the top productivity boosters in
high-resolution 3D asset management and recycling. Ever since text-to-image
models became accessible for inference on consumer hardware, the performance of
3D Painting methods has consistently improved and is currently close to
plateauing. At the core of most such models lies denoising diffusion in the
latent space, an inherently time-consuming iterative process. Multiple
techniques have been developed recently to accelerate generation and reduce
sampling iterations by orders of magnitude. Designed for 2D generative imaging,
these techniques do not come with recipes for lifting them into 3D. In this
paper, we address this shortcoming by proposing a Latent Consistency Model
(LCM) adaptation for the task at hand. We analyze the strengths and weaknesses
of the proposed model and evaluate it quantitatively and qualitatively. Based
on the Objaverse dataset samples study, our 3D painting method attains strong
preference in all evaluations. Source code is available at
https://github.com/kongdai123/consistency2.

---

## 29. [Deep Bayesian Active Learning for Preference Modeling in Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10023)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10023](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10023)

**Authors**: Luckeciano C. Melo, Panagiotis Tigas, Alessandro Abate, Yarin Gal

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-18 by Luckeciano Carvalho Melo

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/luckeciano/bal-pm)

### Abstract

Leveraging human preferences for steering the behavior of Large Language
Models (LLMs) has demonstrated notable success in recent years. Nonetheless,
data selection and labeling are still a bottleneck for these systems,
particularly at large scale. Hence, selecting the most informative points for
acquiring human feedback may considerably reduce the cost of preference
labeling and unleash the further development of LLMs. Bayesian Active Learning
provides a principled framework for addressing this challenge and has
demonstrated remarkable success in diverse settings. However, previous attempts
to employ it for Preference Modeling did not meet such expectations. In this
work, we identify that naive epistemic uncertainty estimation leads to the
acquisition of redundant samples. We address this by proposing the Bayesian
Active Learner for Preference Modeling (BAL-PM), a novel stochastic acquisition
policy that not only targets points of high epistemic uncertainty according to
the preference model but also seeks to maximize the entropy of the acquired
prompt distribution in the feature space spanned by the employed LLM. Notably,
our experiments demonstrate that BAL-PM requires 33% to 68% fewer preference
labels in two popular human preference datasets and exceeds previous stochastic
Bayesian acquisition policies.

---
