# Daily Papers - 2024-06-17

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-06-17)

Total papers: 21

---

## 1. [XLand-100B: A Large-Scale Multi-Task Dataset for In-Context
  Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.08973)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.08973](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08973)

**Authors**: Alexander Nikulin, Ilya Zisman, Alexey Zemtsov, Viacheslav Sinii, Vladislav Kurenkov, Sergey Kolesnikov

**Published**: 2024-06-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Alexander Nikulin

**Upvotes**: 89

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dunno-lab/xland-minigrid-datasets)

### Abstract

Following the success of the in-context learning paradigm in large-scale
language and computer vision models, the recently emerging field of in-context
reinforcement learning is experiencing a rapid growth. However, its development
has been held back by the lack of challenging benchmarks, as all the
experiments have been carried out in simple environments and on small-scale
datasets. We present XLand-100B, a large-scale dataset for in-context
reinforcement learning based on the XLand-MiniGrid environment, as a first step
to alleviate this problem. It contains complete learning histories for nearly
30,000 different tasks, covering 100B transitions and 2.5B episodes. It
took 50,000 GPU hours to collect the dataset, which is beyond the reach of
most academic labs. Along with the dataset, we provide the utilities to
reproduce or expand it even further. With this substantial effort, we aim to
democratize research in the rapidly growing field of in-context reinforcement
learning and provide a solid foundation for further scaling. The code is
open-source and available under Apache 2.0 licence at
https://github.com/dunno-lab/xland-minigrid-datasets.

---

## 2. [Make It Count: Text-to-Image Generation with an Accurate Number of
  Objects](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10210)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10210](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10210)

**Authors**: Lital Binyamin, Yoad Tewel, Hilit Segev, Eran Hirsch, Royi Rassin, Gal Chechik

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Royi Rassin

**Upvotes**: 78

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/litalby1/make-it-count)

### Abstract

Despite the unprecedented success of text-to-image diffusion models,
controlling the number of depicted objects using text is surprisingly hard.
This is important for various applications from technical documents, to
children's books to illustrating cooking recipes. Generating object-correct
counts is fundamentally challenging because the generative model needs to keep
a sense of separate identity for every instance of the object, even if several
objects look identical or overlap, and then carry out a global computation
implicitly during generation. It is still unknown if such representations
exist. To address count-correct generation, we first identify features within
the diffusion model that can carry the object identity information. We then use
them to separate and count instances of objects during the denoising process
and detect over-generation and under-generation. We fix the latter by training
a model that predicts both the shape and location of a missing object, based on
the layout of existing ones, and show how it can be used to guide denoising
with correct object count. Our approach, CountGen, does not depend on external
source to determine object layout, but rather uses the prior from the diffusion
model itself, creating prompt-dependent and seed-dependent layouts. Evaluated
on two benchmark datasets, we find that CountGen strongly outperforms the
count-accuracy of existing baselines.

---

## 3. [ChartMimic: Evaluating LMM's Cross-Modal Reasoning Capability via
  Chart-to-Code Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.09961)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.09961](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09961)

**Authors**: Chufan Shi, Cheng Yang, Yaxin Liu, Bo Shui, Junjie Wang, Mohan Jing, Linran Xu, Xinyu Zhu, Siheng Li, Yuxiang Zhang, Gongye Liu, Xiaomei Nie, Deng Cai, Yujiu Yang

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Cheng YANG

**Upvotes**: 55

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/chartmimic/chartmimic)

### Abstract

We introduce a new benchmark, ChartMimic, aimed at assessing the
visually-grounded code generation capabilities of large multimodal models
(LMMs). ChartMimic utilizes information-intensive visual charts and textual
instructions as inputs, requiring LMMs to generate the corresponding code for
chart rendering. ChartMimic includes 1,000 human-curated (figure, instruction,
code) triplets, which represent the authentic chart use cases found in
scientific papers across various domains(e.g., Physics, Computer Science,
Economics, etc). These charts span 18 regular types and 4 advanced types,
diversifying into 191 subcategories. Furthermore, we propose multi-level
evaluation metrics to provide an automatic and thorough assessment of the
output code and the rendered charts. Unlike existing code generation
benchmarks, ChartMimic places emphasis on evaluating LMMs' capacity to
harmonize a blend of cognitive capabilities, encompassing visual understanding,
code generation, and cross-modal reasoning. The evaluation of 3 proprietary
models and 11 open-weight models highlights the substantial challenges posed by
ChartMimic. Even the advanced GPT-4V, Claude-3-opus only achieve an average
score of 73.2 and 53.7, respectively, indicating significant room for
improvement. We anticipate that ChartMimic will inspire the development of
LMMs, advancing the pursuit of artificial general intelligence.

---

## 4. [Needle In A Multimodal Haystack](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.07230)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.07230](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.07230)

**Authors**: Weiyun Wang, Shuibo Zhang, Yiming Ren, Yuchen Duan, Tiantong Li, Shuo Liu, Mengkang Hu, Zhe Chen, Kaipeng Zhang, Lewei Lu, Xizhou Zhu, Ping Luo, Yu Qiao, Jifeng Dai, Wenqi Shao, Wenhai Wang

**Published**: 2024-06-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Weiyun Wang

**Upvotes**: 54

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opengvlab/mm-niah)

### Abstract

With the rapid advancement of multimodal large language models (MLLMs), their
evaluation has become increasingly comprehensive. However, understanding long
multimodal content, as a foundational ability for real-world applications,
remains underexplored. In this work, we present Needle In A Multimodal Haystack
(MM-NIAH), the first benchmark specifically designed to systematically evaluate
the capability of existing MLLMs to comprehend long multimodal documents. Our
benchmark includes three types of evaluation tasks: multimodal retrieval,
counting, and reasoning. In each task, the model is required to answer the
questions according to different key information scattered throughout the given
multimodal document. Evaluating the leading MLLMs on MM-NIAH, we observe that
existing models still have significant room for improvement on these tasks,
especially on vision-centric evaluation. We hope this work can provide a
platform for further research on long multimodal document comprehension and
contribute to the advancement of MLLMs. Code and benchmark are released at
https://github.com/OpenGVLab/MM-NIAH.

---

## 5. [BABILong: Testing the Limits of LLMs with Long Context
  Reasoning-in-a-Haystack](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10149)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10149](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10149)

**Authors**: Yuri Kuratov, Aydar Bulatov, Petr Anokhin, Ivan Rodkin, Dmitry Sorokin, Artyom Sorokin, Mikhail Burtsev

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Yury Kuratov

**Upvotes**: 52

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/booydar/babilong)

### Abstract

In recent years, the input context sizes of large language models (LLMs) have
increased dramatically. However, existing evaluation methods have not kept
pace, failing to comprehensively assess the efficiency of models in handling
long contexts. To bridge this gap, we introduce the BABILong benchmark,
designed to test language models' ability to reason across facts distributed in
extremely long documents. BABILong includes a diverse set of 20 reasoning
tasks, including fact chaining, simple induction, deduction, counting, and
handling lists/sets. These tasks are challenging on their own, and even more
demanding when the required facts are scattered across long natural text. Our
evaluations show that popular LLMs effectively utilize only 10-20\% of the
context and their performance declines sharply with increased reasoning
complexity. Among alternatives to in-context reasoning, Retrieval-Augmented
Generation methods achieve a modest 60\% accuracy on single-fact question
answering, independent of context length. Among context extension methods, the
highest performance is demonstrated by recurrent memory transformers, enabling
the processing of lengths up to 11 million tokens. The BABILong benchmark is
extendable to any length to support the evaluation of new upcoming models with
increased capabilities, and we provide splits up to 1 million token lengths.

---

## 6. [SEACrowd: A Multilingual Multimodal Data Hub and Benchmark Suite for
  Southeast Asian Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10118)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10118](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10118)

**Organization**: SEACrowd

**Authors**: Holy Lovenia, Rahmad Mahendra, Salsabil Maulana Akbar, Lester James V. Miranda, Jennifer Santoso, Elyanah Aco, Akhdan Fadhilah, Jonibek Mansurov, Joseph Marvin Imperial, Onno P. Kampman, Joel Ruben Antony Moniz, Muhammad Ravi Shulthan Habibi, Frederikus Hudi, Railey Montalan, Ryan Ignatius, Joanito Agili Lopo, William Nixon, Börje F. Karlsson, James Jaya, Ryandito Diandaru, Yuze Gao, Patrick Amadeus, Bin Wang, Jan Christian Blaise Cruz, Chenxi Whitehouse, Ivan Halim Parmonangan, Maria Khelli, Wenyu Zhang, Lucky Susanto, Reynard Adha Ryanda, Sonny Lazuardi Hermawan, Dan John Velasco, Muhammad Dehan Al Kautsar, Willy Fitra Hendria, Yasmin Moslem, Noah Flynn, Muhammad Farid Adilazuarda, Haochen Li, Johanes Lee, R. Damanhuri, Shuo Sun, Muhammad Reza Qorib, Amirbek Djanibekov, Wei Qi Leong, Quyet V. Do, Niklas Muennighoff, Tanrada Pansuwan, Ilham Firdausi Putra, Yan Xu, Ngee Chia Tai, Ayu Purwarianti, Sebastian Ruder, William Tjhi, Peerat Limkonchotiwat, Alham Fikri Aji, Sedrick Keh, Genta Indra Winata, Ruochen Zhang, Fajri Koto, Zheng-Xin Yong, Samuel Cahyawijaya

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Börje Karlsson

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SEACrowd/seacrowd-datahub)

### Abstract

Southeast Asia (SEA) is a region rich in linguistic diversity and cultural
variety, with over 1,300 indigenous languages and a population of 671 million
people. However, prevailing AI models suffer from a significant lack of
representation of texts, images, and audio datasets from SEA, compromising the
quality of AI models for SEA languages. Evaluating models for SEA languages is
challenging due to the scarcity of high-quality datasets, compounded by the
dominance of English training data, raising concerns about potential cultural
misrepresentation. To address these challenges, we introduce SEACrowd, a
collaborative initiative that consolidates a comprehensive resource hub that
fills the resource gap by providing standardized corpora in nearly 1,000 SEA
languages across three modalities. Through our SEACrowd benchmarks, we assess
the quality of AI models on 36 indigenous languages across 13 tasks, offering
valuable insights into the current AI landscape in SEA. Furthermore, we propose
strategies to facilitate greater AI advancements, maximizing potential utility
and resource equity for the future of AI in SEA.

---

## 7. [OmniCorpus: A Unified Multimodal Corpus of 10 Billion-Level Images
  Interleaved with Text](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.08418)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.08418](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08418)

**Authors**: Qingyun Li, Zhe Chen, Weiyun Wang, Wenhai Wang, Shenglong Ye, Zhenjiang Jin, Guanzhou Chen, Yinan He, Zhangwei Gao, Erfei Cui, Jiashuo Yu, Hao Tian, Jiasheng Zhou, Chao Xu, Bin Wang, Xingjian Wei, Wei Li, Wenjian Zhang, Bo Zhang, Pinlong Cai, Licheng Wen, Xiangchao Yan, Zhenxiang Li, Pei Chu, Yi Wang, Min Dou, Changyao Tian, Xizhou Zhu, Lewei Lu, Yushi Chen, Junjun He, Zhongying Tu, Tong Lu, Yali Wang, Limin Wang, Dahua Lin, Yu Qiao, Botian Shi, Conghui He, Jifeng Dai

**Published**: 2024-06-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Weiyun Wang

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opengvlab/omnicorpus)

### Abstract

Image-text interleaved data, consisting of multiple images and texts arranged
in a natural document format, aligns with the presentation paradigm of internet
data and closely resembles human reading habits. Recent studies have shown that
such data aids multimodal in-context learning and maintains the capabilities of
large language models during multimodal fine-tuning. However, the limited scale
and diversity of current image-text interleaved data restrict the development
of multimodal large language models. In this paper, we introduce OmniCorpus, a
10 billion-scale image-text interleaved dataset. Using an efficient data
engine, we filter and extract large-scale high-quality documents, which contain
8.6 billion images and 1,696 billion text tokens. Compared to counterparts
(e.g., MMC4, OBELICS), our dataset 1) has 15 times larger scales while
maintaining good data quality; 2) features more diverse sources, including both
English and non-English websites as well as video-centric websites; 3) is more
flexible, easily degradable from an image-text interleaved format to pure text
corpus and image-text pairs. Through comprehensive analysis and experiments, we
validate the quality, usability, and effectiveness of the proposed dataset. We
hope this could provide a solid data foundation for future multimodal model
research. Code and data are released at
https://github.com/OpenGVLab/OmniCorpus.

---

## 8. [GUI Odyssey: A Comprehensive Dataset for Cross-App GUI Navigation on
  Mobile Devices](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.08451)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.08451](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08451)

**Authors**: Quanfeng Lu, Wenqi Shao, Zitao Liu, Fanqing Meng, Boxuan Li, Botong Chen, Siyuan Huang, Kaipeng Zhang, Yu Qiao, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2024-06-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Wenqi Shao

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OpenGVLab/GUI-Odyssey)

### Abstract

Smartphone users often navigate across multiple applications (apps) to
complete tasks such as sharing content between social media platforms.
Autonomous Graphical User Interface (GUI) navigation agents can enhance user
experience in communication, entertainment, and productivity by streamlining
workflows and reducing manual intervention. However, prior GUI agents often
trained with datasets comprising simple tasks that can be completed within a
single app, leading to poor performance in cross-app navigation. To address
this problem, we introduce GUI Odyssey, a comprehensive dataset for training
and evaluating cross-app navigation agents. GUI Odyssey consists of 7,735
episodes from 6 mobile devices, spanning 6 types of cross-app tasks, 201 apps,
and 1.4K app combos. Leveraging GUI Odyssey, we developed OdysseyAgent, a
multimodal cross-app navigation agent by fine-tuning the Qwen-VL model with a
history resampling module. Extensive experiments demonstrate OdysseyAgent's
superior accuracy compared to existing models. For instance, OdysseyAgent
surpasses fine-tuned Qwen-VL and zero-shot GPT-4V by 1.44\% and 55.49\%
in-domain accuracy, and 2.29\% and 48.14\% out-of-domain accuracy on average.
The dataset and code will be released in
https://github.com/OpenGVLab/GUI-Odyssey.

---

## 9. [Glyph-ByT5-v2: A Strong Aesthetic Baseline for Accurate Multilingual
  Visual Text Rendering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10208)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10208](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10208)

**Authors**: Zeyu Liu, Weicong Liang, Yiming Zhao, Bohan Chen, Ji Li, Yuhui Yuan

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by ART

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/AIGText/Glyph-ByT5)

### Abstract

Recently, Glyph-ByT5 has achieved highly accurate visual text rendering
performance in graphic design images. However, it still focuses solely on
English and performs relatively poorly in terms of visual appeal. In this work,
we address these two fundamental limitations by presenting Glyph-ByT5-v2 and
Glyph-SDXL-v2, which not only support accurate visual text rendering for 10
different languages but also achieve much better aesthetic quality. To achieve
this, we make the following contributions: (i) creating a high-quality
multilingual glyph-text and graphic design dataset consisting of more than 1
million glyph-text pairs and 10 million graphic design image-text pairs
covering nine other languages, (ii) building a multilingual visual paragraph
benchmark consisting of 1,000 prompts, with 100 for each language, to assess
multilingual visual spelling accuracy, and (iii) leveraging the latest
step-aware preference learning approach to enhance the visual aesthetic
quality. With the combination of these techniques, we deliver a powerful
customized multilingual text encoder, Glyph-ByT5-v2, and a strong aesthetic
graphic generation model, Glyph-SDXL-v2, that can support accurate spelling in
10 different languages. We perceive our work as a significant advancement,
considering that the latest DALL-E3 and Ideogram 1.0 still struggle with the
multilingual visual text rendering task.

---

## 10. [GEB-1.3B: Open Lightweight Large Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.09900)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.09900](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09900)

**Authors**: Jie Wu, Yufeng Zhu, Lei Shen, Xuqing Lu

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

Recently developed large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, Claude, and
Llama have demonstrated impressive abilities, and even surpass human-level
performance in several tasks. Despite their success, the resource-intensive
demands of these models, requiring significant computational power for both
training and inference, limit their deployment to high-performance servers.
Additionally, the extensive calculation requirements of the models often lead
to increased latency in response times. With the increasing need for LLMs to
operate efficiently on CPUs, research about lightweight models that are
optimized for CPU inference has emerged. In this work, we introduce GEB-1.3B, a
lightweight LLM trained on 550 billion tokens in both Chinese and English
languages. We employ novel training techniques, including ROPE,
Group-Query-Attention, and FlashAttention-2, to accelerate training while
maintaining model performance. Additionally, we fine-tune the model using 10
million samples of instruction data to enhance alignment. GEB-1.3B exhibits
outstanding performance on general benchmarks such as MMLU, C-Eval, and CMMLU,
outperforming comparative models such as MindLLM-1.3B and TinyLLaMA-1.1B.
Notably, the FP32 version of GEB-1.3B achieves commendable inference times on
CPUs, with ongoing efforts to further enhance speed through advanced
quantization techniques. The release of GEB-1.3B as an open-source model marks
a significant contribution to the development of lightweight LLMs, promising to
foster further research and innovation in the field.

---

## 11. [Training-free Camera Control for Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10126)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10126](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10126)

**Authors**: Chen Hou, Guoqiang Wei, Yan Zeng, Zhibo Chen

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [Project Page](https://lifedecoder.github.io/CamTrol/)

### Abstract

We propose a training-free and robust solution to offer camera movement
control for off-the-shelf video diffusion models. Unlike previous work, our
method does not require any supervised finetuning on camera-annotated datasets
or self-supervised training via data augmentation. Instead, it can be plugged
and played with most pretrained video diffusion models and generate camera
controllable videos with a single image or text prompt as input. The
inspiration of our work comes from the layout prior that intermediate latents
hold towards generated results, thus rearranging noisy pixels in them will make
output content reallocated as well. As camera move could also be seen as a kind
of pixel rearrangement caused by perspective change, videos could be
reorganized following specific camera motion if their noisy latents change
accordingly. Established on this, we propose our method CamTrol, which enables
robust camera control for video diffusion models. It is achieved by a two-stage
process. First, we model image layout rearrangement through explicit camera
movement in 3D point cloud space. Second, we generate videos with camera motion
using layout prior of noisy latents formed by a series of rearranged images.
Extensive experiments have demonstrated the robustness our method holds in
controlling camera motion of generated videos. Furthermore, we show that our
method can produce impressive results in generating 3D rotation videos with
dynamic content. Project page at https://lifedecoder.github.io/CamTrol/.

---

## 12. [Designing a Dashboard for Transparency and Control of Conversational AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.07882)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.07882](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.07882)

**Authors**: Yida Chen, Aoyu Wu, Trevor DePodesta, Catherine Yeh, Kenneth Li, Nicholas Castillo Marin, Oam Patel, Jan Riecke, Shivam Raval, Olivia Seow, Martin Wattenberg, Fernanda Viégas

**Published**: 2024-06-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Yida Chen

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yc015/talktuner-chatbot-llm-dashboard)

### Abstract

Conversational LLMs function as black box systems, leaving users guessing
about why they see the output they do. This lack of transparency is potentially
problematic, especially given concerns around bias and truthfulness. To address
this issue, we present an end-to-end prototype-connecting interpretability
techniques with user experience design-that seeks to make chatbots more
transparent. We begin by showing evidence that a prominent open-source LLM has
a "user model": examining the internal state of the system, we can extract data
related to a user's age, gender, educational level, and socioeconomic status.
Next, we describe the design of a dashboard that accompanies the chatbot
interface, displaying this user model in real time. The dashboard can also be
used to control the user model and the system's behavior. Finally, we discuss a
study in which users conversed with the instrumented system. Our results
suggest that users appreciate seeing internal states, which helped them expose
biased behavior and increased their sense of control. Participants also made
valuable suggestions that point to future directions for both design and
machine learning research. The project page and video demo of our TalkTuner
system are available at https://bit.ly/talktuner-project-page

---

## 13. [VideoGUI: A Benchmark for GUI Automation from Instructional Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10227)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10227](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10227)

**Authors**: Kevin Qinghong Lin, Linjie Li, Difei Gao, Qinchen WU, Mingyi Yan, Zhengyuan Yang, Lijuan Wang, Mike Zheng Shou

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Qinghong (Kevin) Lin

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Graphical User Interface (GUI) automation holds significant promise for
enhancing human productivity by assisting with computer tasks. Existing task
formulations primarily focus on simple tasks that can be specified by a single,
language-only instruction, such as "Insert a new slide." In this work, we
introduce VideoGUI, a novel multi-modal benchmark designed to evaluate GUI
assistants on visual-centric GUI tasks. Sourced from high-quality web
instructional videos, our benchmark focuses on tasks involving professional and
novel software (e.g., Adobe Photoshop or Stable Diffusion WebUI) and complex
activities (e.g., video editing). VideoGUI evaluates GUI assistants through a
hierarchical process, allowing for identification of the specific levels at
which they may fail: (i) high-level planning: reconstruct procedural subtasks
from visual conditions without language descriptions; (ii) middle-level
planning: generate sequences of precise action narrations based on visual state
(i.e., screenshot) and goals; (iii) atomic action execution: perform specific
actions such as accurately clicking designated elements. For each level, we
design evaluation metrics across individual dimensions to provide clear
signals, such as individual performance in clicking, dragging, typing, and
scrolling for atomic action execution. Our evaluation on VideoGUI reveals that
even the SoTA large multimodal model GPT4o performs poorly on visual-centric
GUI tasks, especially for high-level planning.

---

## 14. [Rethinking Human Evaluation Protocol for Text-to-Video Models: Enhancing
  Reliability,Reproducibility, and Practicality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.08845)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.08845](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08845)

**Authors**: Tianle Zhang, Langtian Ma, Yuchen Yan, Yuchen Zhang, Kai Wang, Yue Yang, Ziyao Guo, Wenqi Shao, Yang You, Yu Qiao, Ping Luo, Kaipeng Zhang

**Published**: 2024-06-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Wenqi Shao

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ztlmememe/T2VHE)

### Abstract

Recent text-to-video (T2V) technology advancements, as demonstrated by models
such as Gen2, Pika, and Sora, have significantly broadened its applicability
and popularity. Despite these strides, evaluating these models poses
substantial challenges. Primarily, due to the limitations inherent in automatic
metrics, manual evaluation is often considered a superior method for assessing
T2V generation. However, existing manual evaluation protocols face
reproducibility, reliability, and practicality issues. To address these
challenges, this paper introduces the Text-to-Video Human Evaluation (T2VHE)
protocol, a comprehensive and standardized protocol for T2V models. The T2VHE
protocol includes well-defined metrics, thorough annotator training, and an
effective dynamic evaluation module. Experimental results demonstrate that this
protocol not only ensures high-quality annotations but can also reduce
evaluation costs by nearly 50%. We will open-source the entire setup of the
T2VHE protocol, including the complete protocol workflow, the dynamic
evaluation component details, and the annotation interface code. This will help
communities establish more sophisticated human assessment protocols.

---

## 15. [Be like a Goldfish, Don't Memorize! Mitigating Memorization in
  Generative LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10209)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10209](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10209)

**Authors**: Abhimanyu Hans, Yuxin Wen, Neel Jain, John Kirchenbauer, Hamid Kazemi, Prajwal Singhania, Siddharth Singh, Gowthami Somepalli, Jonas Geiping, Abhinav Bhatele, Tom Goldstein

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Abhimanyu Hans

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ahans30/goldfish-loss)

### Abstract

Large language models can memorize and repeat their training data, causing
privacy and copyright risks. To mitigate memorization, we introduce a subtle
modification to the next-token training objective that we call the goldfish
loss. During training, a randomly sampled subset of tokens are excluded from
the loss computation. These dropped tokens are not memorized by the model,
which prevents verbatim reproduction of a complete chain of tokens from the
training set. We run extensive experiments training billion-scale Llama-2
models, both pre-trained and trained from scratch, and demonstrate significant
reductions in extractable memorization with little to no impact on downstream
benchmarks.

---

## 16. [Vivid-ZOO: Multi-View Video Generation with Diffusion Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.08659)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.08659](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08659)

**Authors**: Bing Li, Cheng Zheng, Wenxuan Zhu, Jinjie Mai, Biao Zhang, Peter Wonka, Bernard Ghanem

**Published**: 2024-06-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Bing Li

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

While diffusion models have shown impressive performance in 2D image/video
generation, diffusion-based Text-to-Multi-view-Video (T2MVid) generation
remains underexplored. The new challenges posed by T2MVid generation lie in the
lack of massive captioned multi-view videos and the complexity of modeling such
multi-dimensional distribution. To this end, we propose a novel diffusion-based
pipeline that generates high-quality multi-view videos centered around a
dynamic 3D object from text. Specifically, we factor the T2MVid problem into
viewpoint-space and time components. Such factorization allows us to combine
and reuse layers of advanced pre-trained multi-view image and 2D video
diffusion models to ensure multi-view consistency as well as temporal coherence
for the generated multi-view videos, largely reducing the training cost. We
further introduce alignment modules to align the latent spaces of layers from
the pre-trained multi-view and the 2D video diffusion models, addressing the
reused layers' incompatibility that arises from the domain gap between 2D and
multi-view data. In support of this and future research, we further contribute
a captioned multi-view video dataset. Experimental results demonstrate that our
method generates high-quality multi-view videos, exhibiting vivid motions,
temporal coherence, and multi-view consistency, given a variety of text
prompts.

---

## 17. [RVT-2: Learning Precise Manipulation from Few Demonstrations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.08545)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.08545](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08545)

**Organization**: NVIDIA

**Authors**: Ankit Goyal, Valts Blukis, Jie Xu, Yijie Guo, Yu-Wei Chao, Dieter Fox

**Published**: 2024-06-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Ankit Goyal

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nvlabs/rvt) | [Project Page](https://robotic-view-transformer-2.github.io/)

### Abstract

In this work, we study how to build a robotic system that can solve multiple
3D manipulation tasks given language instructions. To be useful in industrial
and household domains, such a system should be capable of learning new tasks
with few demonstrations and solving them precisely. Prior works, like PerAct
and RVT, have studied this problem, however, they often struggle with tasks
requiring high precision. We study how to make them more effective, precise,
and fast. Using a combination of architectural and system-level improvements,
we propose RVT-2, a multitask 3D manipulation model that is 6X faster in
training and 2X faster in inference than its predecessor RVT. RVT-2 achieves a
new state-of-the-art on RLBench, improving the success rate from 65% to 82%.
RVT-2 is also effective in the real world, where it can learn tasks requiring
high precision, like picking up and inserting plugs, with just 10
demonstrations. Visual results, code, and trained model are provided at:
https://robotic-view-transformer-2.github.io/.

---

## 18. [AV-GS: Learning Material and Geometry Aware Priors for Novel View
  Acoustic Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.08920)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.08920](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08920)

**Authors**: Swapnil Bhosale, Haosen Yang, Diptesh Kanojia, Jiankang Deng, Xiatian Zhu

**Published**: 2024-06-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by HY

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Novel view acoustic synthesis (NVAS) aims to render binaural audio at any
target viewpoint, given a mono audio emitted by a sound source at a 3D scene.
Existing methods have proposed NeRF-based implicit models to exploit visual
cues as a condition for synthesizing binaural audio. However, in addition to
low efficiency originating from heavy NeRF rendering, these methods all have a
limited ability of characterizing the entire scene environment such as room
geometry, material properties, and the spatial relation between the listener
and sound source. To address these issues, we propose a novel Audio-Visual
Gaussian Splatting (AV-GS) model. To obtain a material-aware and geometry-aware
condition for audio synthesis, we learn an explicit point-based scene
representation with an audio-guidance parameter on locally initialized Gaussian
points, taking into account the space relation from the listener and sound
source. To make the visual scene model audio adaptive, we propose a point
densification and pruning strategy to optimally distribute the Gaussian points,
with the per-point contribution in sound propagation (e.g., more points needed
for texture-less wall surfaces as they affect sound path diversion). Extensive
experiments validate the superiority of our AV-GS over existing alternatives on
the real-world RWAS and simulation-based SoundSpaces datasets.

---

## 19. [GaussianSR: 3D Gaussian Super-Resolution with 2D Diffusion Priors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10111)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10111](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10111)

**Authors**: Xiqian Yu, Hanxin Zhu, Tianyu He, Zhibo Chen

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Tianyu He

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Achieving high-resolution novel view synthesis (HRNVS) from low-resolution
input views is a challenging task due to the lack of high-resolution data.
Previous methods optimize high-resolution Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) from
low-resolution input views but suffer from slow rendering speed. In this work,
we base our method on 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) due to its capability of
producing high-quality images at a faster rendering speed. To alleviate the
shortage of data for higher-resolution synthesis, we propose to leverage
off-the-shelf 2D diffusion priors by distilling the 2D knowledge into 3D with
Score Distillation Sampling (SDS). Nevertheless, applying SDS directly to
Gaussian-based 3D super-resolution leads to undesirable and redundant 3D
Gaussian primitives, due to the randomness brought by generative priors. To
mitigate this issue, we introduce two simple yet effective techniques to reduce
stochastic disturbances introduced by SDS. Specifically, we 1) shrink the range
of diffusion timestep in SDS with an annealing strategy; 2) randomly discard
redundant Gaussian primitives during densification. Extensive experiments have
demonstrated that our proposed GaussainSR can attain high-quality results for
HRNVS with only low-resolution inputs on both synthetic and real-world
datasets. Project page: https://chchnii.github.io/GaussianSR/

---

## 20. [Decoding the Diversity: A Review of the Indic AI Research Landscape](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.09559)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.09559](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09559)

**Authors**: Sankalp KJ, Vinija Jain, Sreyoshi Bhaduri, Tamoghna Roy, Aman Chadha

**Published**: 2024-06-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Aman Chadha

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

This review paper provides a comprehensive overview of large language model
(LLM) research directions within Indic languages. Indic languages are those
spoken in the Indian subcontinent, including India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri
Lanka, Nepal, and Bhutan, among others. These languages have a rich cultural
and linguistic heritage and are spoken by over 1.5 billion people worldwide.
With the tremendous market potential and growing demand for natural language
processing (NLP) based applications in diverse languages, generative
applications for Indic languages pose unique challenges and opportunities for
research. Our paper deep dives into the recent advancements in Indic generative
modeling, contributing with a taxonomy of research directions, tabulating 84
recent publications. Research directions surveyed in this paper include LLM
development, fine-tuning existing LLMs, development of corpora, benchmarking
and evaluation, as well as publications around specific techniques, tools, and
applications. We found that researchers across the publications emphasize the
challenges associated with limited data availability, lack of standardization,
and the peculiar linguistic complexities of Indic languages. This work aims to
serve as a valuable resource for researchers and practitioners working in the
field of NLP, particularly those focused on Indic languages, and contributes to
the development of more accurate and efficient LLM applications for these
languages.

---

## 21. [MaskLID: Code-Switching Language Identification through Iterative
  Masking](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.06263)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.06263](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.06263)

**Organization**: CIS, LMU Munich

**Authors**: Amir Hossein Kargaran, François Yvon, Hinrich Schütze

**Published**: 2024-06-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-17 by Amir Hossein Kargaran

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/cisnlp/masklid)

### Abstract

We present MaskLID, a simple, yet effective, code-switching (CS) language
identification (LID) method. MaskLID does not require any training and is
designed to complement current high-performance sentence-level LIDs.
Sentence-level LIDs are classifiers trained on monolingual texts to provide
single labels, typically using a softmax layer to turn scores into
probabilities. However, in cases where a sentence is composed in both L1 and L2
languages, the LID classifier often only returns the dominant label L1. To
address this limitation, MaskLID employs a strategy to mask text features
associated with L1, allowing the LID to classify the text as L2 in the next
round. This method uses the LID itself to identify the features that require
masking and does not rely on any external resource. In this work, we explore
the use of MaskLID for two open-source LIDs (GlotLID and OpenLID), that are
both based on the FastText architecture. Code and demo are available at
https://github.com/cisnlp/MaskLID.

---
