# Daily Papers - 2024-06-27

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-06-27)

Total papers: 14

---

## 1. [Adam-mini: Use Fewer Learning Rates To Gain More](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.16793)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.16793](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.16793)

**Authors**: Yushun Zhang, Congliang Chen, Ziniu Li, Tian Ding, Chenwei Wu, Yinyu Ye, Zhi-Quan Luo, Ruoyu Sun

**Published**: 2024-06-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by yushun zhang

**Upvotes**: 69

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zyushun/adam-mini)

### Abstract

We propose Adam-mini, an optimizer that achieves on-par or better performance
than AdamW with 45% to 50% less memory footprint. Adam-mini reduces memory by
cutting down the learning rate resources in Adam (i.e., 1/v). We find
that geq 90% of these learning rates in v could be harmlessly removed if
we (1) carefully partition the parameters into blocks following our proposed
principle on Hessian structure; (2) assign a single but good learning rate to
each parameter block. We further find that, for each of these parameter blocks,
there exists a single high-quality learning rate that can outperform Adam,
provided that sufficient resources are available to search it out. We then
provide one cost-effective way to find good learning rates and propose
Adam-mini. Empirically, we verify that Adam-mini performs on par or better than
AdamW on various language models sized from 125M to 7B for pre-training,
supervised fine-tuning, and RLHF. The reduced memory footprint of Adam-mini
also alleviates communication overheads among GPUs and CPUs, thereby increasing
throughput. For instance, Adam-mini achieves 49.6% higher throughput than AdamW
when pre-training Llama2-7B on 2times A800-80GB GPUs, which saves 33%
wall-clock time for pre-training.

---

## 2. [Octo-planner: On-device Language Model for Planner-Action Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18082)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18082](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18082)

**Authors**: Wei Chen, Zhiyuan Li, Zhen Guo, Yikang Shen

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Alex Chen

**Upvotes**: 48

### Abstract

AI agents have become increasingly significant in various domains, enabling
autonomous decision-making and problem-solving. To function effectively, these
agents require a planning process that determines the best course of action and
then executes the planned actions. In this paper, we present an efficient
on-device Planner-Action framework that separates planning and action execution
into two distinct components: a planner agent based on Phi-3 Mini, a 3.8
billion parameter LLM optimized for edge devices, and an action agent using the
Octopus model for function execution. The planner agent first responds to user
queries by decomposing tasks into a sequence of sub-steps, which are then
executed by the action agent. To optimize performance on resource-constrained
devices, we employ model fine-tuning instead of in-context learning, reducing
computational costs and energy consumption while improving response times. Our
approach involves using GPT-4 to generate diverse planning queries and
responses based on available functions, with subsequent validations to ensure
data quality. We fine-tune the Phi-3 Mini model on this curated dataset,
achieving a 97\% success rate in our in-domain test environment. To address
multi-domain planning challenges, we developed a multi-LoRA training method
that merges weights from LoRAs trained on distinct function subsets. This
approach enables flexible handling of complex, multi-domain queries while
maintaining computational efficiency on resource-constrained devices. To
support further research, we have open-sourced our model weights at
https://huggingface.co/NexaAIDev/octopus-planning. For the demo, please
refer to https://www.nexa4ai.com/octo-planner.

---

## 3. [CharXiv: Charting Gaps in Realistic Chart Understanding in Multimodal
  LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18521)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18521](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18521)

**Authors**: Zirui Wang, Mengzhou Xia, Luxi He, Howard Chen, Yitao Liu, Richard Zhu, Kaiqu Liang, Xindi Wu, Haotian Liu, Sadhika Malladi, Alexis Chevalier, Sanjeev Arora, Danqi Chen

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Zirui Wang

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/princeton-nlp/CharXiv)

### Abstract

Chart understanding plays a pivotal role when applying Multimodal Large
Language Models (MLLMs) to real-world tasks such as analyzing scientific papers
or financial reports. However, existing datasets often focus on oversimplified
and homogeneous charts with template-based questions, leading to an
over-optimistic measure of progress. We demonstrate that although open-source
models can appear to outperform strong proprietary models on these benchmarks,
a simple stress test with slightly different charts or questions can
deteriorate performance by up to 34.5%. In this work, we propose CharXiv, a
comprehensive evaluation suite involving 2,323 natural, challenging, and
diverse charts from arXiv papers. CharXiv includes two types of questions: 1)
descriptive questions about examining basic chart elements and 2) reasoning
questions that require synthesizing information across complex visual elements
in the chart. To ensure quality, all charts and questions are handpicked,
curated, and verified by human experts. Our results reveal a substantial,
previously underestimated gap between the reasoning skills of the strongest
proprietary model (i.e., GPT-4o), which achieves 47.1% accuracy, and the
strongest open-source model (i.e., InternVL Chat V1.5), which achieves 29.2%.
All models lag far behind human performance of 80.5%, underscoring weaknesses
in the chart understanding capabilities of existing MLLMs. We hope CharXiv
facilitates future research on MLLM chart understanding by providing a more
realistic and faithful measure of progress. Project page and leaderboard:
https://charxiv.github.io/

---

## 4. [ChronoMagic-Bench: A Benchmark for Metamorphic Evaluation of
  Text-to-Time-lapse Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18522)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18522](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18522)

**Authors**: Shenghai Yuan, Jinfa Huang, Yongqi Xu, Yaoyang Liu, Shaofeng Zhang, Yujun Shi, Ruijie Zhu, Xinhua Cheng, Jiebo Luo, Li Yuan

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by YSH

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/PKU-YuanGroup/ChronoMagic-Bench) | [Project Page](https://pku-yuangroup.github.io/ChronoMagic-Bench/)

### Abstract

We propose a novel text-to-video (T2V) generation benchmark,
ChronoMagic-Bench, to evaluate the temporal and metamorphic capabilities of the
T2V models (e.g. Sora and Lumiere) in time-lapse video generation. In contrast
to existing benchmarks that focus on the visual quality and textual relevance
of generated videos, ChronoMagic-Bench focuses on the model's ability to
generate time-lapse videos with significant metamorphic amplitude and temporal
coherence. The benchmark probes T2V models for their physics, biology, and
chemistry capabilities, in a free-form text query. For these purposes,
ChronoMagic-Bench introduces 1,649 prompts and real-world videos as references,
categorized into four major types of time-lapse videos: biological,
human-created, meteorological, and physical phenomena, which are further
divided into 75 subcategories. This categorization comprehensively evaluates
the model's capacity to handle diverse and complex transformations. To
accurately align human preference with the benchmark, we introduce two new
automatic metrics, MTScore and CHScore, to evaluate the videos' metamorphic
attributes and temporal coherence. MTScore measures the metamorphic amplitude,
reflecting the degree of change over time, while CHScore assesses the temporal
coherence, ensuring the generated videos maintain logical progression and
continuity. Based on the ChronoMagic-Bench, we conduct comprehensive manual
evaluations of ten representative T2V models, revealing their strengths and
weaknesses across different categories of prompts, and providing a thorough
evaluation framework that addresses current gaps in video generation research.
Moreover, we create a large-scale ChronoMagic-Pro dataset, containing 460k
high-quality pairs of 720p time-lapse videos and detailed captions ensuring
high physical pertinence and large metamorphic amplitude.

---

## 5. [A Closer Look into Mixture-of-Experts in Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18219)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18219](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18219)

**Authors**: Ka Man Lo, Zeyu Huang, Zihan Qiu, Zili Wang, Jie Fu

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Ka Man Lo

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kamanphoebe/look-into-moes)

### Abstract

Mixture-of-experts (MoE) is gaining increasing attention due to its unique
properties and remarkable performance, especially for language tasks. By
sparsely activating a subset of parameters for each token, MoE architecture
could increase the model size without sacrificing computational efficiency,
achieving a better trade-off between performance and training costs. However,
the underlying mechanism of MoE still lacks further exploration, and its
modularization degree remains questionable. In this paper, we make an initial
attempt to understand the inner workings of MoE-based large language models.
Concretely, we comprehensively study the parametric and behavioral features of
three recent MoE-based models and reveal some intriguing observations,
including (1) Neurons act like fine-grained experts. (2) The router of MoE
usually selects experts with larger output norms. (3) The expert diversity
increases as the layer increases, while the last layer is an outlier. Based on
the observations, we also provide suggestions for a broad spectrum of MoE
practitioners, such as router design and expert allocation. We hope this work
could shed light on future research on the MoE framework and other modular
architectures. Code is available at
https://github.com/kamanphoebe/Look-into-MoEs.

---

## 6. [EHRCon: Dataset for Checking Consistency between Unstructured Notes and
  Structured Tables in Electronic Health Records](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.16341)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.16341](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.16341)

**Authors**: Yeonsu Kwon, Jiho Kim, Gyubok Lee, Seongsu Bae, Daeun Kyung, Wonchul Cha, Tom Pollard, Alistair Johnson, Edward Choi

**Published**: 2024-06-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Jiho Kim

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dustn1259/ehrcon)

### Abstract

Electronic Health Records (EHRs) are integral for storing comprehensive
patient medical records, combining structured data (e.g., medications) with
detailed clinical notes (e.g., physician notes). These elements are essential
for straightforward data retrieval and provide deep, contextual insights into
patient care. However, they often suffer from discrepancies due to unintuitive
EHR system designs and human errors, posing serious risks to patient safety. To
address this, we developed EHRCon, a new dataset and task specifically designed
to ensure data consistency between structured tables and unstructured notes in
EHRs. EHRCon was crafted in collaboration with healthcare professionals using
the MIMIC-III EHR dataset, and includes manual annotations of 3,943 entities
across 105 clinical notes checked against database entries for consistency.
EHRCon has two versions, one using the original MIMIC-III schema, and another
using the OMOP CDM schema, in order to increase its applicability and
generalizability. Furthermore, leveraging the capabilities of large language
models, we introduce CheckEHR, a novel framework for verifying the consistency
between clinical notes and database tables. CheckEHR utilizes an eight-stage
process and shows promising results in both few-shot and zero-shot settings.
The code is available at https://github.com/dustn1259/EHRCon.

---

## 7. [WildGuard: Open One-Stop Moderation Tools for Safety Risks, Jailbreaks,
  and Refusals of LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18495)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18495](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18495)

**Authors**: Seungju Han, Kavel Rao, Allyson Ettinger, Liwei Jiang, Bill Yuchen Lin, Nathan Lambert, Yejin Choi, Nouha Dziri

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Bill Yuchen Lin

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/allenai/wildguard)

### Abstract

We introduce WildGuard -- an open, light-weight moderation tool for LLM
safety that achieves three goals: (1) identifying malicious intent in user
prompts, (2) detecting safety risks of model responses, and (3) determining
model refusal rate. Together, WildGuard serves the increasing needs for
automatic safety moderation and evaluation of LLM interactions, providing a
one-stop tool with enhanced accuracy and broad coverage across 13 risk
categories. While existing open moderation tools such as Llama-Guard2 score
reasonably well in classifying straightforward model interactions, they lag far
behind a prompted GPT-4, especially in identifying adversarial jailbreaks and
in evaluating models' refusals, a key measure for evaluating safety behaviors
in model responses.
  To address these challenges, we construct WildGuardMix, a large-scale and
carefully balanced multi-task safety moderation dataset with 92K labeled
examples that cover vanilla (direct) prompts and adversarial jailbreaks, paired
with various refusal and compliance responses. WildGuardMix is a combination of
WildGuardTrain, the training data of WildGuard, and WildGuardTest, a
high-quality human-annotated moderation test set with 5K labeled items covering
broad risk scenarios. Through extensive evaluations on WildGuardTest and ten
existing public benchmarks, we show that WildGuard establishes state-of-the-art
performance in open-source safety moderation across all the three tasks
compared to ten strong existing open-source moderation models (e.g., up to
26.4% improvement on refusal detection). Importantly, WildGuard matches and
sometimes exceeds GPT-4 performance (e.g., up to 3.9% improvement on prompt
harmfulness identification). WildGuard serves as a highly effective safety
moderator in an LLM interface, reducing the success rate of jailbreak attacks
from 79.8% to 2.4%.

---

## 8. [Symbolic Learning Enables Self-Evolving Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18532)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18532](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18532)

**Authors**: Wangchunshu Zhou, Yixin Ou, Shengwei Ding, Long Li, Jialong Wu, Tiannan Wang, Jiamin Chen, Shuai Wang, Xiaohua Xu, Ningyu Zhang, Huajun Chen, Yuchen Eleanor Jiang

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Zhou

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

The AI community has been exploring a pathway to artificial general
intelligence (AGI) by developing "language agents", which are complex large
language models (LLMs) pipelines involving both prompting techniques and tool
usage methods. While language agents have demonstrated impressive capabilities
for many real-world tasks, a fundamental limitation of current language agents
research is that they are model-centric, or engineering-centric. That's to say,
the progress on prompts, tools, and pipelines of language agents requires
substantial manual engineering efforts from human experts rather than
automatically learning from data. We believe the transition from model-centric,
or engineering-centric, to data-centric, i.e., the ability of language agents
to autonomously learn and evolve in environments, is the key for them to
possibly achieve AGI.
  In this work, we introduce agent symbolic learning, a systematic framework
that enables language agents to optimize themselves on their own in a
data-centric way using symbolic optimizers. Specifically, we consider agents as
symbolic networks where learnable weights are defined by prompts, tools, and
the way they are stacked together. Agent symbolic learning is designed to
optimize the symbolic network within language agents by mimicking two
fundamental algorithms in connectionist learning: back-propagation and gradient
descent. Instead of dealing with numeric weights, agent symbolic learning works
with natural language simulacrums of weights, loss, and gradients. We conduct
proof-of-concept experiments on both standard benchmarks and complex real-world
tasks and show that agent symbolic learning enables language agents to update
themselves after being created and deployed in the wild, resulting in
"self-evolving agents".

---

## 9. [MatchTime: Towards Automatic Soccer Game Commentary Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18530)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18530](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18530)

**Authors**: Jiayuan Rao, Haoning Wu, Chang Liu, Yanfeng Wang, Weidi Xie

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Haoning Wu

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jyrao/MatchTime) | [Project Page](https://haoningwu3639.github.io/MatchTime/)

### Abstract

Soccer is a globally popular sport with a vast audience, in this paper, we
consider constructing an automatic soccer game commentary model to improve the
audiences' viewing experience. In general, we make the following contributions:
First, observing the prevalent video-text misalignment in existing datasets, we
manually annotate timestamps for 49 matches, establishing a more robust
benchmark for soccer game commentary generation, termed as
SN-Caption-test-align; Second, we propose a multi-modal temporal alignment
pipeline to automatically correct and filter the existing dataset at scale,
creating a higher-quality soccer game commentary dataset for training, denoted
as MatchTime; Third, based on our curated dataset, we train an automatic
commentary generation model, named MatchVoice. Extensive experiments and
ablation studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of our alignment pipeline,
and training model on the curated datasets achieves state-of-the-art
performance for commentary generation, showcasing that better alignment can
lead to significant performance improvements in downstream tasks.

---

## 10. [Math-LLaVA: Bootstrapping Mathematical Reasoning for Multimodal Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.17294)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.17294](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.17294)

**Authors**: Wenhao Shi, Zhiqiang Hu, Yi Bin, Junhua Liu, Yang Yang, See-Kiong Ng, Lidong Bing, Roy Ka-Wei Lee

**Published**: 2024-06-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Zhiqiang Hu

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hzq950419/math-llava)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive reasoning
capabilities, particularly in textual mathematical problem-solving. However,
existing open-source image instruction fine-tuning datasets, containing limited
question-answer pairs per image, do not fully exploit visual information to
enhance the multimodal mathematical reasoning capabilities of Multimodal LLMs
(MLLMs). To bridge this gap, we address the lack of high-quality, diverse
multimodal mathematical datasets by collecting 40K high-quality images with
question-answer pairs from 24 existing datasets and synthesizing 320K new
pairs, creating the MathV360K dataset, which enhances both the breadth and
depth of multimodal mathematical questions. We introduce Math-LLaVA, a
LLaVA-1.5-based model fine-tuned with MathV360K. This novel approach
significantly improves the multimodal mathematical reasoning capabilities of
LLaVA-1.5, achieving a 19-point increase and comparable performance to GPT-4V
on MathVista's minitest split. Furthermore, Math-LLaVA demonstrates enhanced
generalizability, showing substantial improvements on the MMMU benchmark. Our
research highlights the importance of dataset diversity and synthesis in
advancing MLLMs' mathematical reasoning abilities. The code and data are
available at: https://github.com/HZQ950419/Math-LLaVA.

---

## 11. [WildTeaming at Scale: From In-the-Wild Jailbreaks to (Adversarially)
  Safer Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.18510)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.18510](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18510)

**Authors**: Liwei Jiang, Kavel Rao, Seungju Han, Allyson Ettinger, Faeze Brahman, Sachin Kumar, Niloofar Mireshghallah, Ximing Lu, Maarten Sap, Yejin Choi, Nouha Dziri

**Published**: 2024-06-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Liwei Jiang

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/allenai/wildteaming)

### Abstract

We introduce WildTeaming, an automatic LLM safety red-teaming framework that
mines in-the-wild user-chatbot interactions to discover 5.7K unique clusters of
novel jailbreak tactics, and then composes multiple tactics for systematic
exploration of novel jailbreaks. Compared to prior work that performed
red-teaming via recruited human workers, gradient-based optimization, or
iterative revision with LLMs, our work investigates jailbreaks from chatbot
users who were not specifically instructed to break the system. WildTeaming
reveals previously unidentified vulnerabilities of frontier LLMs, resulting in
up to 4.6x more diverse and successful adversarial attacks compared to
state-of-the-art jailbreak methods.
  While many datasets exist for jailbreak evaluation, very few open-source
datasets exist for jailbreak training, as safety training data has been closed
even when model weights are open. With WildTeaming we create WildJailbreak, a
large-scale open-source synthetic safety dataset with 262K vanilla (direct
request) and adversarial (complex jailbreak) prompt-response pairs. To mitigate
exaggerated safety behaviors, WildJailbreak provides two contrastive types of
queries: 1) harmful queries (vanilla & adversarial) and 2) benign queries that
resemble harmful queries in form but contain no harm. As WildJailbreak
considerably upgrades the quality and scale of existing safety resources, it
uniquely enables us to examine the scaling effects of data and the interplay of
data properties and model capabilities during safety training. Through
extensive experiments, we identify the training properties that enable an ideal
balance of safety behaviors: appropriate safeguarding without over-refusal,
effective handling of vanilla and adversarial queries, and minimal, if any,
decrease in general capabilities. All components of WildJailbeak contribute to
achieving balanced safety behaviors of models.

---

## 12. [Understanding and Diagnosing Deep Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.16979)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.16979](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.16979)

**Authors**: Ezgi Korkmaz

**Published**: 2024-06-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Ezgi Korkmaz

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Deep neural policies have recently been installed in a diverse range of
settings, from biotechnology to automated financial systems. However, the
utilization of deep neural networks to approximate the value function leads to
concerns on the decision boundary stability, in particular, with regard to the
sensitivity of policy decision making to indiscernible, non-robust features due
to highly non-convex and complex deep neural manifolds. These concerns
constitute an obstruction to understanding the reasoning made by deep neural
policies, and their foundational limitations. Hence, it is crucial to develop
techniques that aim to understand the sensitivities in the learnt
representations of neural network policies. To achieve this we introduce a
theoretically founded method that provides a systematic analysis of the
unstable directions in the deep neural policy decision boundary across both
time and space. Through experiments in the Arcade Learning Environment (ALE),
we demonstrate the effectiveness of our technique for identifying correlated
directions of instability, and for measuring how sample shifts remold the set
of sensitive directions in the neural policy landscape. Most importantly, we
demonstrate that state-of-the-art robust training techniques yield learning of
disjoint unstable directions, with dramatically larger oscillations over time,
when compared to standard training. We believe our results reveal the
fundamental properties of the decision process made by reinforcement learning
policies, and can help in constructing reliable and robust deep neural
policies.

---

## 13. [Multimodal Task Vectors Enable Many-Shot Multimodal In-Context Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.15334)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.15334](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.15334)

**Authors**: Brandon Huang, Chancharik Mitra, Assaf Arbelle, Leonid Karlinsky, Trevor Darrell, Roei Herzig

**Published**: 2024-06-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by Roei Herzig

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

The recent success of interleaved Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) in few-shot
learning suggests that in-context learning (ICL) with many examples can be
promising for learning new tasks. However, this many-shot multimodal ICL
setting has one crucial problem: it is fundamentally limited by the model's
context length set at pretraining. The problem is especially prominent in the
multimodal domain, which processes both text and images, requiring additional
tokens. This motivates the need for a multimodal method to compress many shots
into fewer tokens without finetuning. In this work, we enable LMMs to perform
multimodal, many-shot in-context learning by leveraging Multimodal Task Vectors
(MTV)--compact implicit representations of in-context examples compressed in
the model's attention heads. Specifically, we first demonstrate the existence
of such MTV in LMMs and then leverage these extracted MTV to enable many-shot
in-context learning for various vision-and-language tasks. Our experiments
suggest that MTV can scale in performance with the number of compressed shots
and generalize to similar out-of-domain tasks without additional context length
for inference.

---

## 14. [MemServe: Context Caching for Disaggregated LLM Serving with Elastic
  Memory Pool](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.17565)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.17565](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.17565)

**Authors**: Cunchen Hu, Heyang Huang, Junhao Hu, Jiang Xu, Xusheng Chen, Tao Xie, Chenxi Wang, Sa Wang, Yungang Bao, Ninghui Sun, Yizhou Shan

**Published**: 2024-06-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-27 by allthingsdisaggregated

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Large language model (LLM) serving has transformed from stateless to stateful
systems, utilizing techniques like context caching and disaggregated inference.
These optimizations extend the lifespan and domain of the KV cache,
necessitating a new architectural approach. We present MemServe, a unified
system that integrates both inter-request and intra-request optimizations.
MemServe introduces MemPool, an elastic memory pool managing distributed memory
and KV caches across serving instances. Using MemPool APIs, MemServe combines
context caching with disaggregated inference for the first time, supported by a
global scheduler that enhances cache reuse through a global prompt tree-based
locality-aware policy. Tests show that MemServe significantly improves job
completion time and time-to-first-time.

---
