# Daily Papers - 2024-06-06

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-06-06)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [Block Transformer: Global-to-Local Language Modeling for Fast Inference](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.02657)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.02657](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02657)

**Authors**: Namgyu Ho, Sangmin Bae, Taehyeon Kim, Hyunjik Jo, Yireun Kim, Tal Schuster, Adam Fisch, James Thorne, Se-Young Yun

**Published**: 2024-06-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 41

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/itsnamgyu/block-transformer)

### Abstract

This paper presents the Block Transformer architecture which adopts
hierarchical global-to-local modeling to autoregressive transformers to
mitigate the inference bottlenecks of self-attention. To apply self-attention,
the key-value (KV) cache of all previous sequences must be retrieved from
memory at every decoding step. Thereby, this KV cache IO becomes a significant
bottleneck in batch inference. We notice that these costs stem from applying
self-attention on the global context, therefore we isolate the expensive
bottlenecks of global modeling to lower layers and apply fast local modeling in
upper layers. To mitigate the remaining costs in the lower layers, we aggregate
input tokens into fixed size blocks and then apply self-attention at this
coarse level. Context information is aggregated into a single embedding to
enable upper layers to decode the next block of tokens, without global
attention. Free of global attention bottlenecks, the upper layers can fully
utilize the compute hardware to maximize inference throughput. By leveraging
global and local modules, the Block Transformer architecture demonstrates
10-20x gains in inference throughput compared to vanilla transformers with
equivalent perplexity. Our work introduces a new approach to optimize language
model inference through novel application of global-to-local modeling. Code is
available at https://github.com/itsnamgyu/block-transformer.

---

## 2. [Parrot: Multilingual Visual Instruction Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.02539)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.02539](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02539)

**Authors**: Hai-Long Sun, Da-Wei Zhou, Yang Li, Shiyin Lu, Chao Yi, Qing-Guo Chen, Zhao Xu, Weihua Luo, Kaifu Zhang, De-Chuan Zhan, Han-Jia Ye

**Published**: 2024-06-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 36

### Abstract

The rapid development of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) like GPT-4V
has marked a significant step towards artificial general intelligence. Existing
methods mainly focus on aligning vision encoders with LLMs through supervised
fine-tuning (SFT) to endow LLMs with multimodal abilities, making MLLMs'
inherent ability to react to multiple languages progressively deteriorate as
the training process evolves. We empirically find that the imbalanced SFT
datasets, primarily composed of English-centric image-text pairs, lead to
significantly reduced performance in non-English languages. This is due to the
failure of aligning the vision encoder and LLM with multilingual tokens during
the SFT process. In this paper, we introduce Parrot, a novel method that
utilizes textual guidance to drive visual token alignment at the language
level. Parrot makes the visual tokens condition on diverse language inputs and
uses Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) to promote the alignment of multilingual tokens.
Specifically, to enhance non-English visual tokens alignment, we compute the
cross-attention using the initial visual features and textual embeddings, the
result of which is then fed into the MoE router to select the most relevant
experts. The selected experts subsequently convert the initial visual tokens
into language-specific visual tokens. Moreover, considering the current lack of
benchmarks for evaluating multilingual capabilities within the field, we
collect and make available a Massive Multilingual Multimodal Benchmark which
includes 6 languages, 15 categories, and 12,000 questions, named as MMMB. Our
method not only demonstrates state-of-the-art performance on multilingual
MMBench and MMMB, but also excels across a broad range of multimodal tasks.
Both the source code and the training dataset of Parrot will be made publicly
available.

---

## 3. [Mobile-Agent-v2: Mobile Device Operation Assistant with Effective
  Navigation via Multi-Agent Collaboration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.01014)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.01014](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.01014)

**Authors**: Junyang Wang, Haiyang Xu, Haitao Jia, Xi Zhang, Ming Yan, Weizhou Shen, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, Jitao Sang

**Published**: 2024-06-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

Mobile device operation tasks are increasingly becoming a popular multi-modal
AI application scenario. Current Multi-modal Large Language Models (MLLMs),
constrained by their training data, lack the capability to function effectively
as operation assistants. Instead, MLLM-based agents, which enhance capabilities
through tool invocation, are gradually being applied to this scenario. However,
the two major navigation challenges in mobile device operation tasks, task
progress navigation and focus content navigation, are significantly complicated
under the single-agent architecture of existing work. This is due to the overly
long token sequences and the interleaved text-image data format, which limit
performance. To address these navigation challenges effectively, we propose
Mobile-Agent-v2, a multi-agent architecture for mobile device operation
assistance. The architecture comprises three agents: planning agent, decision
agent, and reflection agent. The planning agent generates task progress, making
the navigation of history operations more efficient. To retain focus content,
we design a memory unit that updates with task progress. Additionally, to
correct erroneous operations, the reflection agent observes the outcomes of
each operation and handles any mistakes accordingly. Experimental results
indicate that Mobile-Agent-v2 achieves over a 30% improvement in task
completion compared to the single-agent architecture of Mobile-Agent. The code
is open-sourced at https://github.com/X-PLUG/MobileAgent.

---

## 4. [Audio Mamba: Bidirectional State Space Model for Audio Representation
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.03344)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.03344](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03344)

**Authors**: Mehmet Hamza Erol, Arda Senocak, Jiu Feng, Joon Son Chung

**Published**: 2024-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mhamzaerol/audio-mamba-aum)

### Abstract

Transformers have rapidly become the preferred choice for audio
classification, surpassing methods based on CNNs. However, Audio Spectrogram
Transformers (ASTs) exhibit quadratic scaling due to self-attention. The
removal of this quadratic self-attention cost presents an appealing direction.
Recently, state space models (SSMs), such as Mamba, have demonstrated potential
in language and vision tasks in this regard. In this study, we explore whether
reliance on self-attention is necessary for audio classification tasks. By
introducing Audio Mamba (AuM), the first self-attention-free, purely SSM-based
model for audio classification, we aim to address this question. We evaluate
AuM on various audio datasets - comprising six different benchmarks - where it
achieves comparable or better performance compared to well-established AST
model.

---

## 5. [Ouroboros3D: Image-to-3D Generation via 3D-aware Recursive Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.03184)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.03184](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03184)

**Authors**: Hao Wen, Zehuan Huang, Yaohui Wang, Xinyuan Chen, Yu Qiao, Lu Sheng

**Published**: 2024-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Costwen/Ouroboros3D) | [Project Page](https://costwen.github.io/Ouroboros3D/arXiv:2406.03184v2)

### Abstract

Existing single image-to-3D creation methods typically involve a two-stage
process, first generating multi-view images, and then using these images for 3D
reconstruction. However, training these two stages separately leads to
significant data bias in the inference phase, thus affecting the quality of
reconstructed results. We introduce a unified 3D generation framework, named
Ouroboros3D, which integrates diffusion-based multi-view image generation and
3D reconstruction into a recursive diffusion process. In our framework, these
two modules are jointly trained through a self-conditioning mechanism, allowing
them to adapt to each other's characteristics for robust inference. During the
multi-view denoising process, the multi-view diffusion model uses the 3D-aware
maps rendered by the reconstruction module at the previous timestep as
additional conditions. The recursive diffusion framework with 3D-aware feedback
unites the entire process and improves geometric consistency.Experiments show
that our framework outperforms separation of these two stages and existing
methods that combine them at the inference phase. Project page:
https://costwen.github.io/Ouroboros3D/

---

## 6. [PosterLLaVa: Constructing a Unified Multi-modal Layout Generator with
  LLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.02884)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.02884](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02884)

**Authors**: Tao Yang, Yingmin Luo, Zhongang Qi, Yang Wu, Ying Shan, Chang Wen Chen

**Published**: 2024-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/posterllava/posterllava)

### Abstract

Layout generation is the keystone in achieving automated graphic design,
requiring arranging the position and size of various multi-modal design
elements in a visually pleasing and constraint-following manner. Previous
approaches are either inefficient for large-scale applications or lack
flexibility for varying design requirements. Our research introduces a unified
framework for automated graphic layout generation, leveraging the multi-modal
large language model (MLLM) to accommodate diverse design tasks. In contrast,
our data-driven method employs structured text (JSON format) and visual
instruction tuning to generate layouts under specific visual and textual
constraints, including user-defined natural language specifications. We
conducted extensive experiments and achieved state-of-the-art (SOTA)
performance on public multi-modal layout generation benchmarks, demonstrating
the effectiveness of our method. Moreover, recognizing existing datasets'
limitations in capturing the complexity of real-world graphic designs, we
propose two new datasets for much more challenging tasks (user-constrained
generation and complicated poster), further validating our model's utility in
real-life settings. Marking by its superior accessibility and adaptability,
this approach further automates large-scale graphic design tasks. The code and
datasets will be publicly available on
https://github.com/posterllava/PosterLLaVA.

---

## 7. [LiveSpeech: Low-Latency Zero-shot Text-to-Speech via Autoregressive
  Modeling of Audio Discrete Codes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.02897)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.02897](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02897)

**Authors**: Trung Dang, David Aponte, Dung Tran, Kazuhito Koishida

**Published**: 2024-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Prior works have demonstrated zero-shot text-to-speech by using a generative
language model on audio tokens obtained via a neural audio codec. It is still
challenging, however, to adapt them to low-latency scenarios. In this paper, we
present LiveSpeech - a fully autoregressive language model-based approach for
zero-shot text-to-speech, enabling low-latency streaming of the output audio.
To allow multiple token prediction within a single decoding step, we propose
(1) using adaptive codebook loss weights that consider codebook contribution in
each frame and focus on hard instances, and (2) grouping codebooks and
processing groups in parallel. Experiments show our proposed models achieve
competitive results to state-of-the-art baselines in terms of content accuracy,
speaker similarity, audio quality, and inference speed while being suitable for
low-latency streaming applications.

---

## 8. [Searching Priors Makes Text-to-Video Synthesis Better](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.03215)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.03215](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03215)

**Authors**: Haoran Cheng, Liang Peng, Linxuan Xia, Yuepeng Hu, Hengjia Li, Qinglin Lu, Xiaofei He, Boxi Wu

**Published**: 2024-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Significant advancements in video diffusion models have brought substantial
progress to the field of text-to-video (T2V) synthesis. However, existing T2V
synthesis model struggle to accurately generate complex motion dynamics,
leading to a reduction in video realism. One possible solution is to collect
massive data and train the model on it, but this would be extremely expensive.
To alleviate this problem, in this paper, we reformulate the typical T2V
generation process as a search-based generation pipeline. Instead of scaling up
the model training, we employ existing videos as the motion prior database.
Specifically, we divide T2V generation process into two steps: (i) For a given
prompt input, we search existing text-video datasets to find videos with text
labels that closely match the prompt motions. We propose a tailored search
algorithm that emphasizes object motion features. (ii) Retrieved videos are
processed and distilled into motion priors to fine-tune a pre-trained base T2V
model, followed by generating desired videos using input prompt. By utilizing
the priors gleaned from the searched videos, we enhance the realism of the
generated videos' motion. All operations can be finished on a single NVIDIA RTX
4090 GPU. We validate our method against state-of-the-art T2V models across
diverse prompt inputs. The code will be public.

---

## 9. [Scaling Laws for Reward Model Overoptimization in Direct Alignment
  Algorithms](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.02900)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.02900](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02900)

**Authors**: Rafael Rafailov, Yaswanth Chittepu, Ryan Park, Harshit Sikchi, Joey Hejna, Bradley Knox, Chelsea Finn, Scott Niekum

**Published**: 2024-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has been crucial to the
recent success of Large Language Models (LLMs), however, it is often a complex
and brittle process. In the classical RLHF framework, a reward model is first
trained to represent human preferences, which is in turn used by an online
reinforcement learning (RL) algorithm to optimize the LLM. A prominent issue
with such methods is reward over-optimization or reward hacking,
where performance as measured by the learned proxy reward model increases, but
true quality plateaus or even deteriorates. Direct Alignment Algorithms (DDAs)
like Direct Preference Optimization have emerged as alternatives to the
classical RLHF pipeline by circumventing the reward modeling phase. However,
although DAAs do not use a separate proxy reward model, they still commonly
deteriorate from over-optimization. While the so-called reward hacking
phenomenon is not well-defined for DAAs, we still uncover similar trends: at
higher KL budgets, DAA algorithms exhibit similar degradation patterns to their
classic RLHF counterparts. In particular, we find that DAA methods deteriorate
not only across a wide range of KL budgets but also often before even a single
epoch of the dataset is completed. Through extensive empirical experimentation,
this work formulates and formalizes the reward over-optimization or hacking
problem for DAAs and explores its consequences across objectives, training
regimes, and model scales.

---

## 10. [Item-Language Model for Conversational Recommendation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.02844)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.02844](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02844)

**Authors**: Li Yang, Anushya Subbiah, Hardik Patel, Judith Yue Li, Yanwei Song, Reza Mirghaderi, Vikram Aggarwal

**Published**: 2024-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Large-language Models (LLMs) have been extremely successful at tasks like
complex dialogue understanding, reasoning and coding due to their emergent
abilities. These emergent abilities have been extended with multi-modality to
include image, audio, and video capabilities. Recommender systems, on the other
hand, have been critical for information seeking and item discovery needs.
Recently, there have been attempts to apply LLMs for recommendations. One
difficulty of current attempts is that the underlying LLM is usually not
trained on the recommender system data, which largely contains user interaction
signals and is often not publicly available. Another difficulty is user
interaction signals often have a different pattern from natural language text,
and it is currently unclear if the LLM training setup can learn more
non-trivial knowledge from interaction signals compared with traditional
recommender system methods. Finally, it is difficult to train multiple LLMs for
different use-cases, and to retain the original language and reasoning
abilities when learning from recommender system data. To address these three
limitations, we propose an Item-Language Model (ILM), which is composed of an
item encoder to produce text-aligned item representations that encode user
interaction signals, and a frozen LLM that can understand those item
representations with preserved pretrained knowledge. We conduct extensive
experiments which demonstrate both the importance of the language-alignment and
of user interaction knowledge in the item encoder.

---

## 11. [PLaD: Preference-based Large Language Model Distillation with
  Pseudo-Preference Pairs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.02886)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.02886](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02886)

**Authors**: Rongzhi Zhang, Jiaming Shen, Tianqi Liu, Haorui Wang, Zhen Qin, Feng Han, Jialu Liu, Simon Baumgartner, Michael Bendersky, Chao Zhang

**Published**: 2024-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have exhibited impressive capabilities in
various tasks, yet their vast parameter sizes restrict their applicability in
resource-constrained settings. Knowledge distillation (KD) offers a viable
solution by transferring expertise from large teacher models to compact student
models. However, traditional KD techniques face specific challenges when
applied to LLMs, including restricted access to LLM outputs, significant
teacher-student capacity gaps, and the inherited mis-calibration issue. In this
work, we present PLaD, a novel preference-based LLM distillation framework.
PLaD exploits the teacher-student capacity discrepancy to generate
pseudo-preference pairs where teacher outputs are preferred over student
outputs. Then, PLaD leverages a ranking loss to re-calibrate student's
estimation of sequence likelihood, which steers the student's focus towards
understanding the relative quality of outputs instead of simply imitating the
teacher. PLaD bypasses the need for access to teacher LLM's internal states,
tackles the student's expressivity limitations, and mitigates the student
mis-calibration issue. Through extensive experiments on two sequence generation
tasks and with various LLMs, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed
PLaD framework.

---

## 12. [Xmodel-LM Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.02856)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.02856](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02856)

**Authors**: Yichuan Wang, Yang Liu, Yu Yan, Xucheng Huang, Ling Jiang

**Published**: 2024-06-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MS-P3/code7)

### Abstract

We introduce Xmodel-LM, a compact and efficient 1.1B language model
pre-trained on over 2 trillion tokens. Trained on our self-built dataset
(Xdata), which balances Chinese and English corpora based on downstream task
optimization, Xmodel-LM exhibits remarkable performance despite its smaller
size. It notably surpasses existing open-source language models of similar
scale. Our model checkpoints and code are publicly accessible on GitHub at
https://github.com/XiaoduoAILab/XmodelLM.

---
