# Daily Papers - 2024-06-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-06-10)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [Mixture-of-Agents Enhances Large Language Model Capabilities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.04692)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.04692](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04692)

**Authors**: Junlin Wang, Jue Wang, Ben Athiwaratkun, Ce Zhang, James Zou

**Published**: 2024-06-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 59

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/togethercomputer/moa)

### Abstract

Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) demonstrate substantial
capabilities in natural language understanding and generation tasks. With the
growing number of LLMs, how to harness the collective expertise of multiple
LLMs is an exciting open direction. Toward this goal, we propose a new approach
that leverages the collective strengths of multiple LLMs through a
Mixture-of-Agents (MoA) methodology. In our approach, we construct a layered
MoA architecture wherein each layer comprises multiple LLM agents. Each agent
takes all the outputs from agents in the previous layer as auxiliary
information in generating its response. MoA models achieves state-of-art
performance on AlpacaEval 2.0, MT-Bench and FLASK, surpassing GPT-4 Omni. For
example, our MoA using only open-source LLMs is the leader of AlpacaEval 2.0 by
a substantial gap, achieving a score of 65.1% compared to 57.5% by GPT-4 Omni.

---

## 2. [CRAG -- Comprehensive RAG Benchmark](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.04744)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.04744](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04744)

**Authors**: Xiao Yang, Kai Sun, Hao Xin, Yushi Sun, Nikita Bhalla, Xiangsen Chen, Sajal Choudhary, Rongze Daniel Gui, Ziran Will Jiang, Ziyu Jiang, Lingkun Kong, Brian Moran, Jiaqi Wang, Yifan Ethan Xu, An Yan, Chenyu Yang, Eting Yuan, Hanwen Zha, Nan Tang, Lei Chen, Nicolas Scheffer, Yue Liu, Nirav Shah, Rakesh Wanga, Anuj Kumar, Wen-tau Yih, Xin Luna Dong

**Published**: 2024-06-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/crag)

### Abstract

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has recently emerged as a promising
solution to alleviate Large Language Model (LLM)'s deficiency in lack of
knowledge. Existing RAG datasets, however, do not adequately represent the
diverse and dynamic nature of real-world Question Answering (QA) tasks. To
bridge this gap, we introduce the Comprehensive RAG Benchmark (CRAG), a factual
question answering benchmark of 4,409 question-answer pairs and mock APIs to
simulate web and Knowledge Graph (KG) search. CRAG is designed to encapsulate a
diverse array of questions across five domains and eight question categories,
reflecting varied entity popularity from popular to long-tail, and temporal
dynamisms ranging from years to seconds. Our evaluation on this benchmark
highlights the gap to fully trustworthy QA. Whereas most advanced LLMs achieve
<=34% accuracy on CRAG, adding RAG in a straightforward manner improves the
accuracy only to 44%. State-of-the-art industry RAG solutions only answer 63%
questions without any hallucination. CRAG also reveals much lower accuracy in
answering questions regarding facts with higher dynamism, lower popularity, or
higher complexity, suggesting future research directions. The CRAG benchmark
laid the groundwork for a KDD Cup 2024 challenge, attracting thousands of
participants and submissions within the first 50 days of the competition. We
commit to maintaining CRAG to serve research communities in advancing RAG
solutions and general QA solutions.

---

## 3. [WildBench: Benchmarking LLMs with Challenging Tasks from Real Users in
  the Wild](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.04770)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.04770](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04770)

**Authors**: Bill Yuchen Lin, Yuntian Deng, Khyathi Chandu, Faeze Brahman, Abhilasha Ravichander, Valentina Pyatkin, Nouha Dziri, Ronan Le Bras, Yejin Choi

**Published**: 2024-06-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/allenai/wildbench)

### Abstract

We introduce WildBench, an automated evaluation framework designed to
benchmark large language models (LLMs) using challenging, real-world user
queries. WildBench consists of 1,024 tasks carefully selected from over one
million human-chatbot conversation logs. For automated evaluation with
WildBench, we have developed two metrics, WB-Reward and WB-Score, which are
computable using advanced LLMs such as GPT-4-turbo. WildBench evaluation uses
task-specific checklists to evaluate model outputs systematically and provides
structured explanations that justify the scores and comparisons, resulting in
more reliable and interpretable automatic judgments. WB-Reward employs
fine-grained pairwise comparisons between model responses, generating five
potential outcomes: much better, slightly better, slightly worse, much worse,
or a tie. Unlike previous evaluations that employed a single baseline model, we
selected three baseline models at varying performance levels to ensure a
comprehensive pairwise evaluation. Additionally, we propose a simple method to
mitigate length bias, by converting outcomes of ``slightly better/worse'' to
``tie'' if the winner response exceeds the loser one by more than K
characters. WB-Score evaluates the quality of model outputs individually,
making it a fast and cost-efficient evaluation metric. WildBench results
demonstrate a strong correlation with the human-voted Elo ratings from Chatbot
Arena on hard tasks. Specifically, WB-Reward achieves a Pearson correlation of
0.98 with top-ranking models. Additionally, WB-Score reaches 0.95, surpassing
both ArenaHard's 0.91 and AlpacaEval2.0's 0.89 for length-controlled win rates,
as well as the 0.87 for regular win rates.

---

## 4. [GenAI Arena: An Open Evaluation Platform for Generative Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.04485)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.04485](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04485)

**Authors**: Dongfu Jiang, Max Ku, Tianle Li, Yuansheng Ni, Shizhuo Sun, Rongqi Fan, Wenhu Chen

**Published**: 2024-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/spaces/TIGER-Lab/GenAI-Arena)

### Abstract

Generative AI has made remarkable strides to revolutionize fields such as
image and video generation. These advancements are driven by innovative
algorithms, architecture, and data. However, the rapid proliferation of
generative models has highlighted a critical gap: the absence of trustworthy
evaluation metrics. Current automatic assessments such as FID, CLIP, FVD, etc
often fail to capture the nuanced quality and user satisfaction associated with
generative outputs. This paper proposes an open platform GenAI-Arena to
evaluate different image and video generative models, where users can actively
participate in evaluating these models. By leveraging collective user feedback
and votes, GenAI-Arena aims to provide a more democratic and accurate measure
of model performance. It covers three arenas for text-to-image generation,
text-to-video generation, and image editing respectively. Currently, we cover a
total of 27 open-source generative models. GenAI-Arena has been operating for
four months, amassing over 6000 votes from the community. We describe our
platform, analyze the data, and explain the statistical methods for ranking the
models. To further promote the research in building model-based evaluation
metrics, we release a cleaned version of our preference data for the three
tasks, namely GenAI-Bench. We prompt the existing multi-modal models like
Gemini, GPT-4o to mimic human voting. We compute the correlation between model
voting with human voting to understand their judging abilities. Our results
show existing multimodal models are still lagging in assessing the generated
visual content, even the best model GPT-4o only achieves a Pearson correlation
of 0.22 in the quality subscore, and behaves like random guessing in others.

---

## 5. [Large Language Model Confidence Estimation via Black-Box Access](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.04370)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.04370](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04370)

**Authors**: Tejaswini Pedapati, Amit Dhurandhar, Soumya Ghosh, Soham Dan, Prasanna Sattigeri

**Published**: 2024-06-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Estimating uncertainty or confidence in the responses of a model can be
significant in evaluating trust not only in the responses, but also in the
model as a whole. In this paper, we explore the problem of estimating
confidence for responses of large language models (LLMs) with simply black-box
or query access to them. We propose a simple and extensible framework where, we
engineer novel features and train a (interpretable) model (viz. logistic
regression) on these features to estimate the confidence. We empirically
demonstrate that our simple framework is effective in estimating confidence of
flan-ul2, llama-13b and mistral-7b with it consistently outperforming existing
black-box confidence estimation approaches on benchmark datasets such as
TriviaQA, SQuAD, CoQA and Natural Questions by even over 10% (on AUROC) in
some cases. Additionally, our interpretable approach provides insight into
features that are predictive of confidence, leading to the interesting and
useful discovery that our confidence models built for one LLM generalize
zero-shot across others on a given dataset.

---

## 6. [Proofread: Fixes All Errors with One Tap](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.04523)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.04523](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04523)

**Authors**: Renjie Liu, Yanxiang Zhang, Yun Zhu, Haicheng Sun, Yuanbo Zhang, Michael Xuelin Huang, Shanqing Cai, Lei Meng, Shumin Zhai

**Published**: 2024-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

The impressive capabilities in Large Language Models (LLMs) provide a
powerful approach to reimagine users' typing experience. This paper
demonstrates Proofread, a novel Gboard feature powered by a server-side LLM in
Gboard, enabling seamless sentence-level and paragraph-level corrections with a
single tap. We describe the complete system in this paper, from data
generation, metrics design to model tuning and deployment. To obtain models
with sufficient quality, we implement a careful data synthetic pipeline
tailored to online use cases, design multifaceted metrics, employ a two-stage
tuning approach to acquire the dedicated LLM for the feature: the Supervised
Fine Tuning (SFT) for foundational quality, followed by the Reinforcement
Learning (RL) tuning approach for targeted refinement. Specifically, we find
sequential tuning on Rewrite and proofread tasks yields the best quality in SFT
stage, and propose global and direct rewards in the RL tuning stage to seek
further improvement. Extensive experiments on a human-labeled golden set showed
our tuned PaLM2-XS model achieved 85.56\% good ratio. We launched the feature
to Pixel 8 devices by serving the model on TPU v5 in Google Cloud, with
thousands of daily active users. Serving latency was significantly reduced by
quantization, bucket inference, text segmentation, and speculative decoding.
Our demo could be seen in https://youtu.be/4ZdcuiwFU7I{Youtube}.

---

## 7. [NATURAL PLAN: Benchmarking LLMs on Natural Language Planning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.04520)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.04520](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04520)

**Authors**: Huaixiu Steven Zheng, Swaroop Mishra, Hugh Zhang, Xinyun Chen, Minmin Chen, Azade Nova, Le Hou, Heng-Tze Cheng, Quoc V. Le, Ed H. Chi, Denny Zhou

**Published**: 2024-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

We introduce NATURAL PLAN, a realistic planning benchmark in natural language
containing 3 key tasks: Trip Planning, Meeting Planning, and Calendar
Scheduling. We focus our evaluation on the planning capabilities of LLMs with
full information on the task, by providing outputs from tools such as Google
Flights, Google Maps, and Google Calendar as contexts to the models. This
eliminates the need for a tool-use environment for evaluating LLMs on Planning.
We observe that NATURAL PLAN is a challenging benchmark for state of the art
models. For example, in Trip Planning, GPT-4 and Gemini 1.5 Pro could only
achieve 31.1% and 34.8% solve rate respectively. We find that model performance
drops drastically as the complexity of the problem increases: all models
perform below 5% when there are 10 cities, highlighting a significant gap in
planning in natural language for SoTA LLMs. We also conduct extensive ablation
studies on NATURAL PLAN to further shed light on the (in)effectiveness of
approaches such as self-correction, few-shot generalization, and in-context
planning with long-contexts on improving LLM planning.

---

## 8. [Why Has Predicting Downstream Capabilities of Frontier AI Models with
  Scale Remained Elusive?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.04391)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.04391](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04391)

**Authors**: Rylan Schaeffer, Hailey Schoelkopf, Brando Miranda, Gabriel Mukobi, Varun Madan, Adam Ibrahim, Herbie Bradley, Stella Biderman, Sanmi Koyejo

**Published**: 2024-06-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Predictable behavior from scaling advanced AI systems is an extremely
desirable property. Although a well-established literature exists on how
pretraining performance scales, the literature on how particular downstream
capabilities scale is significantly muddier. In this work, we take a step back
and ask: why has predicting specific downstream capabilities with scale
remained elusive? While many factors are certainly responsible, we identify a
new factor that makes modeling scaling behavior on widely used multiple-choice
question-answering benchmarks challenging. Using five model families and twelve
well-established multiple-choice benchmarks, we show that downstream
performance is computed from negative log likelihoods via a sequence of
transformations that progressively degrade the statistical relationship between
performance and scale. We then reveal the mechanism causing this degradation:
downstream metrics require comparing the correct choice against a small number
of specific incorrect choices, meaning accurately predicting downstream
capabilities requires predicting not just how probability mass concentrates on
the correct choice with scale, but also how probability mass fluctuates on
specific incorrect choices with scale. We empirically study how probability
mass on the correct choice co-varies with probability mass on incorrect choices
with increasing compute, suggesting that scaling laws for incorrect choices
might be achievable. Our work also explains why pretraining scaling laws are
commonly regarded as more predictable than downstream capabilities and
contributes towards establishing scaling-predictable evaluations of frontier AI
models.

---

## 9. [Boosting Large-scale Parallel Training Efficiency with C4: A
  Communication-Driven Approach](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.04594)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.04594](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04594)

**Authors**: Jianbo Dong, Bin Luo, Jun Zhang, Pengcheng Zhang, Fei Feng, Yikai Zhu, Ang Liu, Zian Chen, Yi Shi, Hairong Jiao, Gang Lu, Yu Guan, Ennan Zhai, Wencong Xiao, Hanyu Zhao, Man Yuan, Siran Yang, Xiang Li, Jiamang Wang, Rui Men, Jianwei Zhang, Huang Zhong, Dennis Cai, Yuan Xie, Binzhang Fu

**Published**: 2024-06-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

The emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) has necessitated the adoption
of parallel training techniques, involving the deployment of thousands of GPUs
to train a single model. Unfortunately, we have found that the efficiency of
current parallel training is often suboptimal, largely due to the following two
main issues. Firstly, hardware failures are inevitable, leading to
interruptions in the training tasks. The inability to quickly identify the
faulty components results in a substantial waste of GPU resources. Secondly,
since GPUs must wait for parameter synchronization to complete before
proceeding to the next round of computation, network congestions can greatly
increase the waiting time for GPUs. To address these challenges, this paper
introduces a communication-driven solution, namely the C4. The key insights of
C4 are two folds. First, in parallel training, collective communication
exhibits periodic and homogeneous characteristics, so any anomalies are
certainly due to some form of hardware malfunction. By leveraging this feature,
C4 can rapidly identify the faulty components, swiftly isolate the anomaly, and
restart the task, thereby avoiding resource wastage caused by delays in anomaly
detection. Second, the predictable communication model of collective
communication, involving few large flows, allows C4 to efficiently execute
traffic planning, substantially reducing network congestion. C4 has been
extensively implemented across our production systems, cutting error-induced
overhead by roughly 30% and enhancing runtime performance by about 15% for
certain applications with moderate communication costs.

---
