# Daily Papers - 2024-06-21

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-06-21)

Total papers: 24

---

## 1. [nabla^2DFT: A Universal Quantum Chemistry Dataset of Drug-Like
  Molecules and a Benchmark for Neural Network Potentials](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.14347)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.14347](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14347)

**Authors**: Kuzma Khrabrov, Anton Ber, Artem Tsypin, Konstantin Ushenin, Egor Rumiantsev, Alexander Telepov, Dmitry Protasov, Ilya Shenbin, Anton Alekseev, Mikhail Shirokikh, Sergey Nikolenko, Elena Tutubalina, Artur Kadurin

**Published**: 2024-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Artem Tsypin

**Upvotes**: 102

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/AIRI-Institute/nablaDFT)

### Abstract

Methods of computational quantum chemistry provide accurate approximations of
molecular properties crucial for computer-aided drug discovery and other areas
of chemical science. However, high computational complexity limits the
scalability of their applications. Neural network potentials (NNPs) are a
promising alternative to quantum chemistry methods, but they require large and
diverse datasets for training. This work presents a new dataset and benchmark
called nabla^2DFT that is based on the nablaDFT. It contains twice as much
molecular structures, three times more conformations, new data types and tasks,
and state-of-the-art models. The dataset includes energies, forces, 17
molecular properties, Hamiltonian and overlap matrices, and a wavefunction
object. All calculations were performed at the DFT level
(omegaB97X-D/def2-SVP) for each conformation. Moreover, nabla^2DFT is the
first dataset that contains relaxation trajectories for a substantial number of
drug-like molecules. We also introduce a novel benchmark for evaluating NNPs in
molecular property prediction, Hamiltonian prediction, and conformational
optimization tasks. Finally, we propose an extendable framework for training
NNPs and implement 10 models within it.

---

## 2. [Instruction Pre-Training: Language Models are Supervised Multitask
  Learners](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.14491)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.14491](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14491)

**Authors**: Daixuan Cheng, Yuxian Gu, Shaohan Huang, Junyu Bi, Minlie Huang, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2024-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Daixuan Cheng

**Upvotes**: 96

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/LMOps) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/instruction-pretrain)

### Abstract

Unsupervised multitask pre-training has been the critical method behind the
recent success of language models (LMs). However, supervised multitask learning
still holds significant promise, as scaling it in the post-training stage
trends towards better generalization. In this paper, we explore supervised
multitask pre-training by proposing Instruction Pre-Training, a framework that
scalably augments massive raw corpora with instruction-response pairs to
pre-train LMs. The instruction-response pairs are generated by an efficient
instruction synthesizer built on open-source models. In our experiments, we
synthesize 200M instruction-response pairs covering 40+ task categories to
verify the effectiveness of Instruction Pre-Training. In pre-training from
scratch, Instruction Pre-Training not only consistently enhances pre-trained
base models but also benefits more from further instruction tuning. In
continual pre-training, Instruction Pre-Training enables Llama3-8B to be
comparable to or even outperform Llama3-70B. Our model, code, and data are
available at https://github.com/microsoft/LMOps.

---

## 3. [The Devil is in the Details: StyleFeatureEditor for Detail-Rich StyleGAN
  Inversion and High Quality Image Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.10601)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.10601](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10601)

**Authors**: Denis Bobkov, Vadim Titov, Aibek Alanov, Dmitry Vetrov

**Published**: 2024-06-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Aibek Alanov

**Upvotes**: 70

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/airi-institute/stylefeatureeditor)

### Abstract

The task of manipulating real image attributes through StyleGAN inversion has
been extensively researched. This process involves searching latent variables
from a well-trained StyleGAN generator that can synthesize a real image,
modifying these latent variables, and then synthesizing an image with the
desired edits. A balance must be struck between the quality of the
reconstruction and the ability to edit. Earlier studies utilized the
low-dimensional W-space for latent search, which facilitated effective editing
but struggled with reconstructing intricate details. More recent research has
turned to the high-dimensional feature space F, which successfully inverses the
input image but loses much of the detail during editing. In this paper, we
introduce StyleFeatureEditor -- a novel method that enables editing in both
w-latents and F-latents. This technique not only allows for the reconstruction
of finer image details but also ensures their preservation during editing. We
also present a new training pipeline specifically designed to train our model
to accurately edit F-latents. Our method is compared with state-of-the-art
encoding approaches, demonstrating that our model excels in terms of
reconstruction quality and is capable of editing even challenging out-of-domain
examples. Code is available at
https://github.com/AIRI-Institute/StyleFeatureEditor.

---

## 4. [HARE: HumAn pRiors, a key to small language model Efficiency](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11410)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11410](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11410)

**Authors**: Lingyun Zhang, Bin jin, Gaojian Ge, Lunhui Liu, Xuewen Shen, Mingyong Wu, Houqian Zhang, Yongneng Jiang, Shiqi Chen, Shi Pu

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Zhang

**Upvotes**: 39

### Abstract

Human priors play a crucial role in efficiently utilizing data in deep
learning. However, with the development of large language models (LLMs), there
is an increasing emphasis on scaling both model size and data volume, which
often diminishes the importance of human priors in data construction.
Influenced by these trends, existing Small Language Models (SLMs) mainly rely
on web-scraped large-scale training data, neglecting the proper incorporation
of human priors. This oversight limits the training efficiency of language
models in resource-constrained settings. In this paper, we propose a principle
to leverage human priors for data construction. This principle emphasizes
achieving high-performance SLMs by training on a concise dataset that
accommodates both semantic diversity and data quality consistency, while
avoiding benchmark data leakage. Following this principle, we train an SLM
named HARE-1.1B. Extensive experiments on large-scale benchmark datasets
demonstrate that HARE-1.1B performs favorably against state-of-the-art SLMs,
validating the effectiveness of the proposed principle. Additionally, this
provides new insights into efficient language model training in
resource-constrained environments from the view of human priors.

---

## 5. [Prism: A Framework for Decoupling and Assessing the Capabilities of VLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.14544)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.14544](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14544)

**Authors**: Yuxuan Qiao, Haodong Duan, Xinyu Fang, Junming Yang, Lin Chen, Songyang Zhang, Jiaqi Wang, Dahua Lin, Kai Chen

**Published**: 2024-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Lin Chen

**Upvotes**: 35

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sparksjoe/prism)

### Abstract

Vision Language Models (VLMs) demonstrate remarkable proficiency in
addressing a wide array of visual questions, which requires strong perception
and reasoning faculties. Assessing these two competencies independently is
crucial for model refinement, despite the inherent difficulty due to the
intertwined nature of seeing and reasoning in existing VLMs. To tackle this
issue, we present Prism, an innovative framework designed to disentangle the
perception and reasoning processes involved in visual question solving. Prism
comprises two distinct stages: a perception stage that utilizes a VLM to
extract and articulate visual information in textual form, and a reasoning
stage that formulates responses based on the extracted visual information using
a Large Language Model (LLM). This modular design enables the systematic
comparison and assessment of both proprietary and open-source VLM for their
perception and reasoning strengths. Our analytical framework provides several
valuable insights, underscoring Prism's potential as a cost-effective solution
for vision-language tasks. By combining a streamlined VLM focused on perception
with a powerful LLM tailored for reasoning, Prism achieves superior results in
general vision-language tasks while substantially cutting down on training and
operational expenses. Quantitative evaluations show that Prism, when configured
with a vanilla 2B LLaVA and freely accessible GPT-3.5, delivers performance on
par with VLMs 10 times larger on the rigorous multimodal benchmark MMStar.
The project is released at: https://github.com/SparksJoe/Prism.

---

## 6. [MMBench-Video: A Long-Form Multi-Shot Benchmark for Holistic Video
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.14515)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.14515](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14515)

**Authors**: Xinyu Fang, Kangrui Mao, Haodong Duan, Xiangyu Zhao, Dahua Lin, Kai Chen

**Published**: 2024-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by HAODONG DUAN

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

The advent of large vision-language models (LVLMs) has spurred research into
their applications in multi-modal contexts, particularly in video
understanding. Traditional VideoQA benchmarks, despite providing quantitative
metrics, often fail to encompass the full spectrum of video content and
inadequately assess models' temporal comprehension. To address these
limitations, we introduce MMBench-Video, a quantitative benchmark designed to
rigorously evaluate LVLMs' proficiency in video understanding. MMBench-Video
incorporates lengthy videos from YouTube and employs free-form questions,
mirroring practical use cases. The benchmark is meticulously crafted to probe
the models' temporal reasoning skills, with all questions human-annotated
according to a carefully constructed ability taxonomy. We employ GPT-4 for
automated assessment, demonstrating superior accuracy and robustness over
earlier LLM-based evaluations. Utilizing MMBench-Video, we have conducted
comprehensive evaluations that include both proprietary and open-source LVLMs
for images and videos. MMBench-Video stands as a valuable resource for the
research community, facilitating improved evaluation of LVLMs and catalyzing
progress in the field of video understanding. The evalutation code of
MMBench-Video will be integrated into VLMEvalKit:
https://github.com/open-compass/VLMEvalKit.

---

## 7. [Model Merging and Safety Alignment: One Bad Model Spoils the Bunch](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.14563)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.14563](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14563)

**Authors**: Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud, Umberto Michieli, Fabio Pizzati, Philip Torr, Adel Bibi, Bernard Ghanem, Mete Ozay

**Published**: 2024-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud

**Upvotes**: 30

### Abstract

Merging Large Language Models (LLMs) is a cost-effective technique for
combining multiple expert LLMs into a single versatile model, retaining the
expertise of the original ones. However, current approaches often overlook the
importance of safety alignment during merging, leading to highly misaligned
models. This work investigates the effects of model merging on alignment. We
evaluate several popular model merging techniques, demonstrating that existing
methods do not only transfer domain expertise but also propagate misalignment.
We propose a simple two-step approach to address this problem: (i) generating
synthetic safety and domain-specific data, and (ii) incorporating these
generated data into the optimization process of existing data-aware model
merging techniques. This allows us to treat alignment as a skill that can be
maximized in the resulting merged LLM. Our experiments illustrate the
effectiveness of integrating alignment-related data during merging, resulting
in models that excel in both domain expertise and alignment.

---

## 8. [Whiteboard-of-Thought: Thinking Step-by-Step Across Modalities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.14562)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.14562](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14562)

**Authors**: Sachit Menon, Richard Zemel, Carl Vondrick

**Published**: 2024-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Sachit Menon

**Upvotes**: 28

### Abstract

When presented with questions involving visual thinking, humans naturally
switch reasoning modalities, often forming mental images or drawing visual
aids. Large language models have shown promising results in arithmetic and
symbolic reasoning by expressing intermediate reasoning in text as a chain of
thought, yet struggle to extend this capability to answer text queries that are
easily solved by visual reasoning, even with extensive multimodal pretraining.
We introduce a simple method, whiteboard-of-thought prompting, to unlock the
visual reasoning capabilities of multimodal large language models across
modalities. Whiteboard-of-thought prompting provides multimodal large language
models with a metaphorical `whiteboard' to draw out reasoning steps as images,
then returns these images back to the model for further processing. We find
this can be accomplished with no demonstrations or specialized modules, instead
leveraging models' existing ability to write code with libraries such as
Matplotlib and Turtle. This simple approach shows state-of-the-art results on
four difficult natural language tasks that involve visual and spatial
reasoning. We identify multiple settings where GPT-4o using chain-of-thought
fails dramatically, including more than one where it achieves 0% accuracy,
while whiteboard-of-thought enables up to 92% accuracy in these same
settings. We present a detailed exploration of where the technique succeeds as
well as its sources of error.

---

## 9. [Invertible Consistency Distillation for Text-Guided Image Editing in
  Around 7 Steps](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.14539)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.14539](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14539)

**Authors**: Nikita Starodubcev, Mikhail Khoroshikh, Artem Babenko, Dmitry Baranchuk

**Published**: 2024-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Dmitry Baranchuk

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

Diffusion distillation represents a highly promising direction for achieving
faithful text-to-image generation in a few sampling steps. However, despite
recent successes, existing distilled models still do not provide the full
spectrum of diffusion abilities, such as real image inversion, which enables
many precise image manipulation methods. This work aims to enrich distilled
text-to-image diffusion models with the ability to effectively encode real
images into their latent space. To this end, we introduce invertible
Consistency Distillation (iCD), a generalized consistency distillation
framework that facilitates both high-quality image synthesis and accurate image
encoding in only 3-4 inference steps. Though the inversion problem for
text-to-image diffusion models gets exacerbated by high classifier-free
guidance scales, we notice that dynamic guidance significantly reduces
reconstruction errors without noticeable degradation in generation performance.
As a result, we demonstrate that iCD equipped with dynamic guidance may serve
as a highly effective tool for zero-shot text-guided image editing, competing
with more expensive state-of-the-art alternatives.

---

## 10. [PIN: A Knowledge-Intensive Dataset for Paired and Interleaved Multimodal
  Documents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.13923)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.13923](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.13923)

**Authors**: Junjie Wang, Yin Zhang, Yatai Ji, Yuxiang Zhang, Chunyang Jiang, Yubo Wang, Kang Zhu, Zekun Wang, Tiezhen Wang, Wenhao Huang, Jie Fu, Bei Chen, Qunshu Lin, Minghao Liu, Ge Zhang, Wenhu Chen

**Published**: 2024-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Ge Zhang

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

Recent advancements in Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) have leveraged
extensive multimodal datasets to enhance capabilities in complex
knowledge-driven tasks. However, persistent challenges in perceptual and
reasoning errors limit their efficacy, particularly in interpreting intricate
visual data and deducing multimodal relationships. Addressing these issues, we
introduce a novel dataset format, PIN (Paired and INterleaved multimodal
documents), designed to significantly improve both the depth and breadth of
multimodal training. The PIN format is built on three foundational principles:
knowledge intensity, scalability, and support for diverse training modalities.
This innovative format combines markdown files and comprehensive images to
enrich training data with a dense knowledge structure and versatile training
strategies. We present PIN-14M, an open-source dataset comprising 14 million
samples derived from a diverse range of Chinese and English sources, tailored
to include complex web and scientific content. This dataset is constructed
meticulously to ensure data quality and ethical integrity, aiming to facilitate
advanced training strategies and improve model robustness against common
multimodal training pitfalls. Our initial results, forming the basis of this
technical report, suggest significant potential for the PIN format in refining
LMM performance, with plans for future expansions and detailed evaluations of
its impact on model capabilities.

---

## 11. [GLiNER multi-task: Generalist Lightweight Model for Various Information
  Extraction Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.12925)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.12925](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12925)

**Organization**: Knowledgator Engineering

**Authors**: Ihor Stepanov, Mykhailo Shtopko

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Ingvar

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

Information extraction tasks require both accurate, efficient, and
generalisable models. Classical supervised deep learning approaches can achieve
the required performance, but they need large datasets and are limited in their
ability to adapt to different tasks. On the other hand, large language models
(LLMs) demonstrate good generalization, meaning that they can adapt to many
different tasks based on user requests. However, LLMs are computationally
expensive and tend to fail to generate structured outputs. In this article, we
will introduce a new kind of GLiNER model that can be used for various
information extraction tasks while being a small encoder model. Our model
achieved SoTA performance on zero-shot NER benchmarks and leading performance
on question-answering, summarization and relation extraction tasks.
Additionally, in this article, we will cover experimental results on
self-learning approaches for named entity recognition using GLiNER models.

---

## 12. [DigiRL: Training In-The-Wild Device-Control Agents with Autonomous
  Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11896)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11896](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11896)

**Authors**: Hao Bai, Yifei Zhou, Mert Cemri, Jiayi Pan, Alane Suhr, Sergey Levine, Aviral Kumar

**Published**: 2024-06-14 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Jiayi Pan

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

Training corpuses for vision language models (VLMs) typically lack sufficient
amounts of decision-centric data. This renders off-the-shelf VLMs sub-optimal
for decision-making tasks such as in-the-wild device control through graphical
user interfaces (GUIs). While training with static demonstrations has shown
some promise, we show that such methods fall short for controlling real GUIs
due to their failure to deal with real-world stochasticity and non-stationarity
not captured in static observational data. This paper introduces a novel
autonomous RL approach, called DigiRL, for training in-the-wild device control
agents through fine-tuning a pre-trained VLM in two stages: offline RL to
initialize the model, followed by offline-to-online RL. To do this, we build a
scalable and parallelizable Android learning environment equipped with a
VLM-based evaluator and develop a simple yet effective RL approach for learning
in this domain. Our approach runs advantage-weighted RL with advantage
estimators enhanced to account for stochasticity along with an automatic
curriculum for deriving maximal learning signal. We demonstrate the
effectiveness of DigiRL using the Android-in-the-Wild (AitW) dataset, where our
1.3B VLM trained with RL achieves a 49.5% absolute improvement -- from 17.7 to
67.2% success rate -- over supervised fine-tuning with static human
demonstration data. These results significantly surpass not only the prior best
agents, including AppAgent with GPT-4V (8.3% success rate) and the 17B CogAgent
trained with AitW data (38.5%), but also the prior best autonomous RL approach
based on filtered behavior cloning (57.8%), thereby establishing a new
state-of-the-art for digital agents for in-the-wild device control.

---

## 13. [Self-play with Execution Feedback: Improving Instruction-following
  Capabilities of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.13542)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.13542](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.13542)

**Authors**: Guanting Dong, Keming Lu, Chengpeng Li, Tingyu Xia, Bowen Yu, Chang Zhou, Jingren Zhou

**Published**: 2024-06-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/QwenLM/AutoIF)

### Abstract

One core capability of large language models (LLMs) is to follow natural
language instructions. However, the issue of automatically constructing
high-quality training data to enhance the complex instruction-following
abilities of LLMs without manual annotation remains unresolved. In this paper,
we introduce AutoIF, the first scalable and reliable method for automatically
generating instruction-following training data. AutoIF transforms the
validation of instruction-following data quality into code verification,
requiring LLMs to generate instructions, the corresponding code to check the
correctness of the instruction responses, and unit test samples to verify the
code's correctness. Then, execution feedback-based rejection sampling can
generate data for Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) and Reinforcement Learning from
Human Feedback (RLHF) training. AutoIF achieves significant improvements across
three training algorithms, SFT, Offline DPO, and Online DPO, when applied to
the top open-source LLMs, Qwen2 and LLaMA3, in self-alignment and
strong-to-weak distillation settings. Our code is publicly available at
https://github.com/QwenLM/AutoIF.

---

## 14. [LiveMind: Low-latency Large Language Models with Simultaneous Inference](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.14319)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.14319](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14319)

**Authors**: Chuangtao Chen, Grace Li Zhang, Xunzhao Yin, Cheng Zhuo, Ulf Schlichtmann, Bing Li

**Published**: 2024-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Chuangtao Chen

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/chuangtaochen-tum/livemind)

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce a novel low-latency inference framework for large
language models (LLMs) inference which enables LLMs to perform inferences with
incomplete prompts. By reallocating computational processes to prompt input
phase, we achieve a substantial reduction in latency, thereby significantly
enhancing the interactive experience for users of LLMs. The framework adeptly
manages the visibility of the streaming prompt to the model, allowing it to
infer from incomplete prompts or await additional prompts. Compared with
traditional inference methods that utilize complete prompts, our approach
demonstrates an average reduction of 59% in response latency on the MMLU-Pro
dataset, while maintaining comparable accuracy. Additionally, our framework
facilitates collaborative inference and output across different models. By
employing an LLM for inference and a small language model (SLM) for output, we
achieve an average 68% reduction in response latency, alongside a 5.5%
improvement in accuracy on the MMLU-Pro dataset compared with the SLM baseline.
For long prompts exceeding 20 sentences, the response latency can be reduced by
up to 93%.

---

## 15. [Improving Visual Commonsense in Language Models via Multiple Image
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.13621)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.13621](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.13621)

**Authors**: Guy Yariv, Idan Schwartz, Yossi Adi, Sagie Benaim

**Published**: 2024-06-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Guy Yariv

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/guyyariv/vlmig)

### Abstract

Commonsense reasoning is fundamentally based on multimodal knowledge.
However, existing large language models (LLMs) are primarily trained using
textual data only, limiting their ability to incorporate essential visual
information. In contrast, Visual Language Models, which excel at
visually-oriented tasks, often fail at non-visual tasks such as basic
commonsense reasoning. This divergence highlights a critical challenge - the
integration of robust visual understanding with foundational text-based
language reasoning. To this end, we introduce a method aimed at enhancing LLMs'
visual commonsense. Specifically, our method generates multiple images based on
the input text prompt and integrates these into the model's decision-making
process by mixing their prediction probabilities. To facilitate multimodal
grounded language modeling, we employ a late-fusion layer that combines the
projected visual features with the output of a pre-trained LLM conditioned on
text only. This late-fusion layer enables predictions based on comprehensive
image-text knowledge as well as text only when this is required. We evaluate
our approach using several visual commonsense reasoning tasks together with
traditional NLP tasks, including common sense reasoning and reading
comprehension. Our experimental results demonstrate significant superiority
over existing baselines. When applied to recent state-of-the-art LLMs (e.g.,
Llama3), we observe improvements not only in visual common sense but also in
traditional NLP benchmarks. Code and models are available under
https://github.com/guyyariv/vLMIG.

---

## 16. [Iterative Length-Regularized Direct Preference Optimization: A Case
  Study on Improving 7B Language Models to GPT-4 Level](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11817)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11817](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11817)

**Authors**: Jie Liu, Zhanhui Zhou, Jiaheng Liu, Xingyuan Bu, Chao Yang, Han-Sen Zhong, Wanli Ouyang

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Ge Zhang

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), a standard method for aligning language
models with human preferences, is traditionally applied to offline preferences.
Recent studies show that DPO benefits from iterative training with online
preferences labeled by a trained reward model. In this work, we identify a
pitfall of vanilla iterative DPO - improved response quality can lead to
increased verbosity. To address this, we introduce iterative length-regularized
DPO (iLR-DPO) to penalize response length. Our empirical results show that
iLR-DPO can enhance a 7B model to perform on par with GPT-4 without increasing
verbosity. Specifically, our 7B model achieves a 50.5% length-controlled win
rate against GPT-4 Preview on AlpacaEval 2.0, and excels across
standard benchmarks including MT-Bench, Arena-Hard and OpenLLM Leaderboard.
These results demonstrate the effectiveness of iterative DPO in aligning
language models with human feedback.

---

## 17. [REPOEXEC: Evaluate Code Generation with a Repository-Level Executable
  Benchmark](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11927)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11927](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11927)

**Authors**: Nam Le Hai, Dung Manh Nguyen, Nghi D. Q. Bui

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Nghi Bui

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/FSoft-AI4Code/RepoExec)

### Abstract

The ability of CodeLLMs to generate executable and functionally correct code
at the repository-level scale remains largely unexplored. We introduce
RepoExec, a novel benchmark for evaluating code generation at the
repository-level scale. RepoExec focuses on three main aspects: executability,
functional correctness through automated test case generation with high
coverage rate, and carefully crafted cross-file contexts to accurately generate
code. Our work explores a controlled scenario where developers specify
necessary code dependencies, challenging the model to integrate these
accurately. Experiments show that while pretrained LLMs outperform
instruction-tuned models in correctness, the latter excel in utilizing provided
dependencies and demonstrating debugging capabilities. We also introduce a new
instruction-tuned dataset that focuses on code dependencies and demonstrate
that CodeLLMs fine-tuned on our dataset have a better capability to leverage
these dependencies effectively. RepoExec aims to provide a comprehensive
evaluation of code functionality and alignment with developer intent, paving
the way for more reliable and applicable CodeLLMs in real-world scenarios. The
dataset and source code can be found
at~https://github.com/FSoft-AI4Code/RepoExec.

---

## 18. [ExVideo: Extending Video Diffusion Models via Parameter-Efficient
  Post-Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.14130)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.14130](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14130)

**Authors**: Zhongjie Duan, Wenmeng Zhou, Cen Chen, Yaliang Li, Weining Qian

**Published**: 2024-06-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/modelscope/DiffSynth-Studio)

### Abstract

Recently, advancements in video synthesis have attracted significant
attention. Video synthesis models such as AnimateDiff and Stable Video
Diffusion have demonstrated the practical applicability of diffusion models in
creating dynamic visual content. The emergence of SORA has further spotlighted
the potential of video generation technologies. Nonetheless, the extension of
video lengths has been constrained by the limitations in computational
resources. Most existing video synthesis models can only generate short video
clips. In this paper, we propose a novel post-tuning methodology for video
synthesis models, called ExVideo. This approach is designed to enhance the
capability of current video synthesis models, allowing them to produce content
over extended temporal durations while incurring lower training expenditures.
In particular, we design extension strategies across common temporal model
architectures respectively, including 3D convolution, temporal attention, and
positional embedding. To evaluate the efficacy of our proposed post-tuning
approach, we conduct extension training on the Stable Video Diffusion model.
Our approach augments the model's capacity to generate up to 5times its
original number of frames, requiring only 1.5k GPU hours of training on a
dataset comprising 40k videos. Importantly, the substantial increase in video
length doesn't compromise the model's innate generalization capabilities, and
the model showcases its advantages in generating videos of diverse styles and
resolutions. We will release the source code and the enhanced model publicly.

---

## 19. [τ-bench: A Benchmark for Tool-Agent-User Interaction in Real-World
  Domains](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.12045)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.12045](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12045)

**Authors**: Shunyu Yao, Noah Shinn, Pedram Razavi, Karthik Narasimhan

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Soham Parikh

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sierra-research/tau-bench)

### Abstract

Existing benchmarks do not test language agents on their interaction with
human users or ability to follow domain-specific rules, both of which are vital
for deploying them in real world applications. We propose tau-bench, a
benchmark emulating dynamic conversations between a user (simulated by language
models) and a language agent provided with domain-specific API tools and policy
guidelines. We employ an efficient and faithful evaluation process that
compares the database state at the end of a conversation with the annotated
goal state. We also propose a new metric (pass^k) to evaluate the reliability
of agent behavior over multiple trials. Our experiments show that even
state-of-the-art function calling agents (like gpt-4o) succeed on <50% of the
tasks, and are quite inconsistent (pass^8 <25% in retail). Our findings point
to the need for methods that can improve the ability of agents to act
consistently and follow rules reliably.

---

## 20. [Model Internals-based Answer Attribution for Trustworthy
  Retrieval-Augmented Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.13663)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.13663](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.13663)

**Authors**: Jirui Qi, Gabriele Sarti, Raquel Fernández, Arianna Bisazza

**Published**: 2024-06-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Gabriele Sarti

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Betswish/MIRAGE) | [Project Page](https://gsarti.com/publication/mirage/)

### Abstract

Ensuring the verifiability of model answers is a fundamental challenge for
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) in the question answering (QA) domain.
Recently, self-citation prompting was proposed to make large language models
(LLMs) generate citations to supporting documents along with their answers.
However, self-citing LLMs often struggle to match the required format, refer to
non-existent sources, and fail to faithfully reflect LLMs' context usage
throughout the generation. In this work, we present MIRAGE --Model
Internals-based RAG Explanations -- a plug-and-play approach using model
internals for faithful answer attribution in RAG applications. MIRAGE detects
context-sensitive answer tokens and pairs them with retrieved documents
contributing to their prediction via saliency methods. We evaluate our proposed
approach on a multilingual extractive QA dataset, finding high agreement with
human answer attribution. On open-ended QA, MIRAGE achieves citation quality
and efficiency comparable to self-citation while also allowing for a
finer-grained control of attribution parameters. Our qualitative evaluation
highlights the faithfulness of MIRAGE's attributions and underscores the
promising application of model internals for RAG answer attribution.

---

## 21. [StableSemantics: A Synthetic Language-Vision Dataset of Semantic
  Representations in Naturalistic Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.13735)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.13735](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.13735)

**Authors**: Rushikesh Zawar, Shaurya Dewan, Andrew F. Luo, Margaret M. Henderson, Michael J. Tarr, Leila Wehbe

**Published**: 2024-06-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Andrew Luo

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Understanding the semantics of visual scenes is a fundamental challenge in
Computer Vision. A key aspect of this challenge is that objects sharing similar
semantic meanings or functions can exhibit striking visual differences, making
accurate identification and categorization difficult. Recent advancements in
text-to-image frameworks have led to models that implicitly capture natural
scene statistics. These frameworks account for the visual variability of
objects, as well as complex object co-occurrences and sources of noise such as
diverse lighting conditions. By leveraging large-scale datasets and
cross-attention conditioning, these models generate detailed and contextually
rich scene representations. This capability opens new avenues for improving
object recognition and scene understanding in varied and challenging
environments. Our work presents StableSemantics, a dataset comprising 224
thousand human-curated prompts, processed natural language captions, over 2
million synthetic images, and 10 million attention maps corresponding to
individual noun chunks. We explicitly leverage human-generated prompts that
correspond to visually interesting stable diffusion generations, provide 10
generations per phrase, and extract cross-attention maps for each image. We
explore the semantic distribution of generated images, examine the distribution
of objects within images, and benchmark captioning and open vocabulary
segmentation methods on our data. To the best of our knowledge, we are the
first to release a diffusion dataset with semantic attributions. We expect our
proposed dataset to catalyze advances in visual semantic understanding and
provide a foundation for developing more sophisticated and effective visual
models. Website: https://stablesemantics.github.io/StableSemantics

---

## 22. [From Insights to Actions: The Impact of Interpretability and Analysis
  Research on NLP](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.12618)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.12618](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12618)

**Authors**: Marius Mosbach, Vagrant Gautam, Tomás Vergara-Browne, Dietrich Klakow, Mor Geva

**Published**: 2024-06-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Vagrant

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mmarius/interpretability-impact)

### Abstract

Interpretability and analysis (IA) research is a growing subfield within NLP
with the goal of developing a deeper understanding of the behavior or inner
workings of NLP systems and methods. Despite growing interest in the subfield,
a commonly voiced criticism is that it lacks actionable insights and therefore
has little impact on NLP. In this paper, we seek to quantify the impact of IA
research on the broader field of NLP. We approach this with a mixed-methods
analysis of: (1) a citation graph of 185K+ papers built from all papers
published at ACL and EMNLP conferences from 2018 to 2023, and (2) a survey of
138 members of the NLP community. Our quantitative results show that IA work is
well-cited outside of IA, and central in the NLP citation graph. Through
qualitative analysis of survey responses and manual annotation of 556 papers,
we find that NLP researchers build on findings from IA work and perceive it is
important for progress in NLP, multiple subfields, and rely on its findings and
terminology for their own work. Many novel methods are proposed based on IA
findings and highly influenced by them, but highly influential non-IA work
cites IA findings without being driven by them. We end by summarizing what is
missing in IA work today and provide a call to action, to pave the way for a
more impactful future of IA research.

---

## 23. [A Systematic Survey of Text Summarization: From Statistical Methods to
  Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.11289)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.11289](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11289)

**Authors**: Haopeng Zhang, Philip S. Yu, Jiawei Zhang

**Published**: 2024-06-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Haopeng

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Text summarization research has undergone several significant transformations
with the advent of deep neural networks, pre-trained language models (PLMs),
and recent large language models (LLMs). This survey thus provides a
comprehensive review of the research progress and evolution in text
summarization through the lens of these paradigm shifts. It is organized into
two main parts: (1) a detailed overview of datasets, evaluation metrics, and
summarization methods before the LLM era, encompassing traditional statistical
methods, deep learning approaches, and PLM fine-tuning techniques, and (2) the
first detailed examination of recent advancements in benchmarking, modeling,
and evaluating summarization in the LLM era. By synthesizing existing
literature and presenting a cohesive overview, this survey also discusses
research trends, open challenges, and proposes promising research directions in
summarization, aiming to guide researchers through the evolving landscape of
summarization research.

---

## 24. [Sampling 3D Gaussian Scenes in Seconds with Latent Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2406.13099)

**ArXiv ID**: [2406.13099](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.13099)

**Authors**: Paul Henderson, Melonie de Almeida, Daniela Ivanova, Titas Anciukevičius

**Published**: 2024-06-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-06-21 by Paul Henderson

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

We present a latent diffusion model over 3D scenes, that can be trained using
only 2D image data. To achieve this, we first design an autoencoder that maps
multi-view images to 3D Gaussian splats, and simultaneously builds a compressed
latent representation of these splats. Then, we train a multi-view diffusion
model over the latent space to learn an efficient generative model. This
pipeline does not require object masks nor depths, and is suitable for complex
scenes with arbitrary camera positions. We conduct careful experiments on two
large-scale datasets of complex real-world scenes -- MVImgNet and
RealEstate10K. We show that our approach enables generating 3D scenes in as
little as 0.2 seconds, either from scratch, from a single input view, or from
sparse input views. It produces diverse and high-quality results while running
an order of magnitude faster than non-latent diffusion models and earlier
NeRF-based generative models

---
