# Daily Papers - 2023-10-13

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-10-13)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [Octopus: Embodied Vision-Language Programmer from Environmental Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.08588)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.08588](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08588)

**Authors**: Jingkang Yang, Yuhao Dong, Shuai Liu, Bo Li, Ziyue Wang, Chencheng Jiang, Haoran Tan, Jiamu Kang, Yuanhan Zhang, Kaiyang Zhou, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2023-10-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dongyh20/octopus)

### Abstract

Large vision-language models (VLMs) have achieved substantial progress in
multimodal perception and reasoning. Furthermore, when seamlessly integrated
into an embodied agent, it signifies a crucial stride towards the creation of
autonomous and context-aware systems capable of formulating plans and executing
commands with precision. In this paper, we introduce Octopus, a novel VLM
designed to proficiently decipher an agent's vision and textual task objectives
and to formulate intricate action sequences and generate executable code. Our
design allows the agent to adeptly handle a wide spectrum of tasks, ranging
from mundane daily chores in simulators to sophisticated interactions in
complex video games. Octopus is trained by leveraging GPT-4 to control an
explorative agent to generate training data, i.e., action blueprints and the
corresponding executable code, within our experimental environment called
OctoVerse. We also collect the feedback that allows the enhanced training
scheme of Reinforcement Learning with Environmental Feedback (RLEF). Through a
series of experiments, we illuminate Octopus's functionality and present
compelling results, and the proposed RLEF turns out to refine the agent's
decision-making. By open-sourcing our model architecture, simulator, and
dataset, we aspire to ignite further innovation and foster collaborative
applications within the broader embodied AI community.

---

## 2. [Lemur: Harmonizing Natural Language and Code for Language Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.06830)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.06830](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06830)

**Authors**: Yiheng Xu, Hongjin Su, Chen Xing, Boyu Mi, Qian Liu, Weijia Shi, Binyuan Hui, Fan Zhou, Yitao Liu, Tianbao Xie, Zhoujun Cheng, Siheng Zhao, Lingpeng Kong, Bailin Wang, Caiming Xiong, Tao Yu

**Published**: 2023-10-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/openlemur/lemur)

### Abstract

We introduce Lemur and Lemur-Chat, openly accessible language models
optimized for both natural language and coding capabilities to serve as the
backbone of versatile language agents. The evolution from language chat models
to functional language agents demands that models not only master human
interaction, reasoning, and planning but also ensure grounding in the relevant
environments. This calls for a harmonious blend of language and coding
capabilities in the models. Lemur and Lemur-Chat are proposed to address this
necessity, demonstrating balanced proficiencies in both domains, unlike
existing open-source models that tend to specialize in either. Through
meticulous pre-training using a code-intensive corpus and instruction
fine-tuning on text and code data, our models achieve state-of-the-art averaged
performance across diverse text and coding benchmarks among open-source models.
Comprehensive experiments demonstrate Lemur's superiority over existing
open-source models and its proficiency across various agent tasks involving
human communication, tool usage, and interaction under fully- and partially-
observable environments. The harmonization between natural and programming
languages enables Lemur-Chat to significantly narrow the gap with proprietary
models on agent abilities, providing key insights into developing advanced
open-source agents adept at reasoning, planning, and operating seamlessly
across environments. https://github.com/OpenLemur/Lemur

---

## 3. [Idea2Img: Iterative Self-Refinement with GPT-4V(ision) for Automatic
  Image Design and Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.08541)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.08541](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08541)

**Authors**: Zhengyuan Yang, Jianfeng Wang, Linjie Li, Kevin Lin, Chung-Ching Lin, Zicheng Liu, Lijuan Wang

**Published**: 2023-10-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

We introduce ``Idea to Image,'' a system that enables multimodal iterative
self-refinement with GPT-4V(ision) for automatic image design and generation.
Humans can quickly identify the characteristics of different text-to-image
(T2I) models via iterative explorations. This enables them to efficiently
convert their high-level generation ideas into effective T2I prompts that can
produce good images. We investigate if systems based on large multimodal models
(LMMs) can develop analogous multimodal self-refinement abilities that enable
exploring unknown models or environments via self-refining tries. Idea2Img
cyclically generates revised T2I prompts to synthesize draft images, and
provides directional feedback for prompt revision, both conditioned on its
memory of the probed T2I model's characteristics. The iterative self-refinement
brings Idea2Img various advantages over vanilla T2I models. Notably, Idea2Img
can process input ideas with interleaved image-text sequences, follow ideas
with design instructions, and generate images of better semantic and visual
qualities. The user preference study validates the efficacy of multimodal
iterative self-refinement on automatic image design and generation.

---

## 4. [GaussianDreamer: Fast Generation from Text to 3D Gaussian Splatting with
  Point Cloud Priors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.08529)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.08529](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08529)

**Authors**: Taoran Yi, Jiemin Fang, Lingxi Xie, Xiaopeng Zhang, Wenyu Liu, Qi Tian, Xinggang Wang

**Published**: 2023-10-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hustvl/GaussianDreamer)

### Abstract

In recent times, the generation of 3D assets from text prompts has shown
impressive results. Both 2D and 3D diffusion models can generate decent 3D
objects based on prompts. 3D diffusion models have good 3D consistency, but
their quality and generalization are limited as trainable 3D data is expensive
and hard to obtain. 2D diffusion models enjoy strong abilities of
generalization and fine generation, but the 3D consistency is hard to
guarantee. This paper attempts to bridge the power from the two types of
diffusion models via the recent explicit and efficient 3D Gaussian splatting
representation. A fast 3D generation framework, named as \name, is proposed,
where the 3D diffusion model provides point cloud priors for initialization and
the 2D diffusion model enriches the geometry and appearance. Operations of
noisy point growing and color perturbation are introduced to enhance the
initialized Gaussians. Our \name can generate a high-quality 3D instance within
25 minutes on one GPU, much faster than previous methods, while the generated
instances can be directly rendered in real time. Demos and code are available
at https://taoranyi.com/gaussiandreamer/.

---

## 5. [HyperHuman: Hyper-Realistic Human Generation with Latent Structural
  Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.08579)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.08579](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08579)

**Authors**: Xian Liu, Jian Ren, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Ivan Skorokhodov, Yanyu Li, Dahua Lin, Xihui Liu, Ziwei Liu, Sergey Tulyakov

**Published**: 2023-10-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/snap-research/HyperHuman)

### Abstract

Despite significant advances in large-scale text-to-image models, achieving
hyper-realistic human image generation remains a desirable yet unsolved task.
Existing models like Stable Diffusion and DALL-E 2 tend to generate human
images with incoherent parts or unnatural poses. To tackle these challenges,
our key insight is that human image is inherently structural over multiple
granularities, from the coarse-level body skeleton to fine-grained spatial
geometry. Therefore, capturing such correlations between the explicit
appearance and latent structure in one model is essential to generate coherent
and natural human images. To this end, we propose a unified framework,
HyperHuman, that generates in-the-wild human images of high realism and diverse
layouts. Specifically, 1) we first build a large-scale human-centric dataset,
named HumanVerse, which consists of 340M images with comprehensive annotations
like human pose, depth, and surface normal. 2) Next, we propose a Latent
Structural Diffusion Model that simultaneously denoises the depth and surface
normal along with the synthesized RGB image. Our model enforces the joint
learning of image appearance, spatial relationship, and geometry in a unified
network, where each branch in the model complements to each other with both
structural awareness and textural richness. 3) Finally, to further boost the
visual quality, we propose a Structure-Guided Refiner to compose the predicted
conditions for more detailed generation of higher resolution. Extensive
experiments demonstrate that our framework yields the state-of-the-art
performance, generating hyper-realistic human images under diverse scenarios.
Project Page: https://snap-research.github.io/HyperHuman/

---

## 6. [MotionDirector: Motion Customization of Text-to-Video Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.08465)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.08465](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08465)

**Authors**: Rui Zhao, Yuchao Gu, Jay Zhangjie Wu, David Junhao Zhang, Jiawei Liu, Weijia Wu, Jussi Keppo, Mike Zheng Shou

**Published**: 2023-10-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/showlab/MotionDirector)

### Abstract

Large-scale pre-trained diffusion models have exhibited remarkable
capabilities in diverse video generations. Given a set of video clips of the
same motion concept, the task of Motion Customization is to adapt existing
text-to-video diffusion models to generate videos with this motion. For
example, generating a video with a car moving in a prescribed manner under
specific camera movements to make a movie, or a video illustrating how a bear
would lift weights to inspire creators. Adaptation methods have been developed
for customizing appearance like subject or style, yet unexplored for motion. It
is straightforward to extend mainstream adaption methods for motion
customization, including full model tuning, parameter-efficient tuning of
additional layers, and Low-Rank Adaptions (LoRAs). However, the motion concept
learned by these methods is often coupled with the limited appearances in the
training videos, making it difficult to generalize the customized motion to
other appearances. To overcome this challenge, we propose MotionDirector, with
a dual-path LoRAs architecture to decouple the learning of appearance and
motion. Further, we design a novel appearance-debiased temporal loss to
mitigate the influence of appearance on the temporal training objective.
Experimental results show the proposed method can generate videos of diverse
appearances for the customized motions. Our method also supports various
downstream applications, such as the mixing of different videos with their
appearance and motion respectively, and animating a single image with
customized motions. Our code and model weights will be released.

---
