# Daily Papers - 2023-10-05

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-10-05)

Total papers: 4

---

## 1. [DSPy: Compiling Declarative Language Model Calls into Self-Improving
  Pipelines](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.03714)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.03714](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03714)

**Authors**: Omar Khattab, Arnav Singhvi, Paridhi Maheshwari, Zhiyuan Zhang, Keshav Santhanam, Sri Vardhamanan, Saiful Haq, Ashutosh Sharma, Thomas T. Joshi, Hanna Moazam, Heather Miller, Matei Zaharia, Christopher Potts

**Published**: 2023-10-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 37

### Abstract

The ML community is rapidly exploring techniques for prompting language
models (LMs) and for stacking them into pipelines that solve complex tasks.
Unfortunately, existing LM pipelines are typically implemented using hard-coded
"prompt templates", i.e. lengthy strings discovered via trial and error. Toward
a more systematic approach for developing and optimizing LM pipelines, we
introduce DSPy, a programming model that abstracts LM pipelines as text
transformation graphs, i.e. imperative computational graphs where LMs are
invoked through declarative modules. DSPy modules are parameterized, meaning
they can learn (by creating and collecting demonstrations) how to apply
compositions of prompting, finetuning, augmentation, and reasoning techniques.
We design a compiler that will optimize any DSPy pipeline to maximize a given
metric. We conduct two case studies, showing that succinct DSPy programs can
express and optimize sophisticated LM pipelines that reason about math word
problems, tackle multi-hop retrieval, answer complex questions, and control
agent loops. Within minutes of compiling, a few lines of DSPy allow GPT-3.5 and
llama2-13b-chat to self-bootstrap pipelines that outperform standard few-shot
prompting (generally by over 25% and 65%, respectively) and pipelines with
expert-created demonstrations (by up to 5-46% and 16-40%, respectively). On top
of that, DSPy programs compiled to open and relatively small LMs like
770M-parameter T5 and llama2-13b-chat are competitive with approaches that rely
on expert-written prompt chains for proprietary GPT-3.5. DSPy is available at
https://github.com/stanfordnlp/dspy

---

## 2. [How FaR Are Large Language Models From Agents with Theory-of-Mind?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.03051)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.03051](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03051)

**Authors**: Pei Zhou, Aman Madaan, Srividya Pranavi Potharaju, Aditya Gupta, Kevin R. McKee, Ari Holtzman, Jay Pujara, Xiang Ren, Swaroop Mishra, Aida Nematzadeh, Shyam Upadhyay, Manaal Faruqui

**Published**: 2023-10-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 35

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sachith-gunasekara/t4d)

### Abstract

"Thinking is for Doing." Humans can infer other people's mental states from
observations--an ability called Theory-of-Mind (ToM)--and subsequently act
pragmatically on those inferences. Existing question answering benchmarks such
as ToMi ask models questions to make inferences about beliefs of characters in
a story, but do not test whether models can then use these inferences to guide
their actions. We propose a new evaluation paradigm for large language models
(LLMs): Thinking for Doing (T4D), which requires models to connect inferences
about others' mental states to actions in social scenarios. Experiments on T4D
demonstrate that LLMs such as GPT-4 and PaLM 2 seemingly excel at tracking
characters' beliefs in stories, but they struggle to translate this capability
into strategic action. Our analysis reveals the core challenge for LLMs lies in
identifying the implicit inferences about mental states without being
explicitly asked about as in ToMi, that lead to choosing the correct action in
T4D. To bridge this gap, we introduce a zero-shot prompting framework, Foresee
and Reflect (FaR), which provides a reasoning structure that encourages LLMs to
anticipate future challenges and reason about potential actions. FaR boosts
GPT-4's performance from 50% to 71% on T4D, outperforming other prompting
methods such as Chain-of-Thought and Self-Ask. Moreover, FaR generalizes to
diverse out-of-distribution story structures and scenarios that also require
ToM inferences to choose an action, consistently outperforming other methods
including few-shot in-context learning.

---

## 3. [Large Language Model Cascades with Mixture of Thoughts Representations
  for Cost-efficient Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.03094)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.03094](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03094)

**Authors**: Murong Yue, Jie Zhao, Min Zhang, Liang Du, Ziyu Yao

**Published**: 2023-10-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/murongyue/llm_mot_cascade)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 have exhibited remarkable
performance in a variety of tasks, but this strong performance often comes with
the high expense of using paid API services. In this paper, we are motivated to
study building an LLM cascade to save the cost of using LLMs, particularly for
performing reasoning (e.g., mathematical, causal) tasks. Our cascade pipeline
follows the intuition that simpler questions can be addressed by a weaker but
more affordable LLM, whereas only the challenging questions necessitate the
stronger and more expensive LLM. To realize this decision-making, we consider
the "answer consistency" of the weaker LLM as a signal of the question
difficulty and propose several methods for the answer sampling and consistency
checking, including one leveraging a mixture of two thought representations
(i.e., Chain-of-Thought and Program-of-Thought). Through experiments on six
reasoning benchmark datasets, with GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4 being the weaker and
stronger LLMs, respectively, we demonstrate that our proposed LLM cascades can
achieve performance comparable to using solely the stronger LLM but require
only 40% of its cost.

---

## 4. [EcoAssistant: Using LLM Assistant More Affordably and Accurately](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.03046)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.03046](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03046)

**Authors**: Jieyu Zhang, Ranjay Krishna, Ahmed H. Awadallah, Chi Wang

**Published**: 2023-10-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jieyuz2/ecoassistant)

### Abstract

Today, users ask Large language models (LLMs) as assistants to answer queries
that require external knowledge; they ask about the weather in a specific city,
about stock prices, and even about where specific locations are within their
neighborhood. These queries require the LLM to produce code that invokes
external APIs to answer the user's question, yet LLMs rarely produce correct
code on the first try, requiring iterative code refinement upon execution
results. In addition, using LLM assistants to support high query volumes can be
expensive. In this work, we contribute a framework, EcoAssistant, that enables
LLMs to answer code-driven queries more affordably and accurately. EcoAssistant
contains three components. First, it allows the LLM assistants to converse with
an automatic code executor to iteratively refine code or to produce answers
based on the execution results. Second, we use a hierarchy of LLM assistants,
which attempts to answer the query with weaker, cheaper LLMs before backing off
to stronger, expensive ones. Third, we retrieve solutions from past successful
queries as in-context demonstrations to help subsequent queries. Empirically,
we show that EcoAssistant offers distinct advantages for affordability and
accuracy, surpassing GPT-4 by 10 points of success rate with less than 50% of
GPT-4's cost.

---
