# Daily Papers - 2023-10-24

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-10-24)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [Matryoshka Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.15111)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.15111](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15111)

**Authors**: Jiatao Gu, Shuangfei Zhai, Yizhe Zhang, Josh Susskind, Navdeep Jaitly

**Published**: 2023-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 45

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/apple/ml-mdm)

### Abstract

Diffusion models are the de facto approach for generating high-quality images
and videos, but learning high-dimensional models remains a formidable task due
to computational and optimization challenges. Existing methods often resort to
training cascaded models in pixel space or using a downsampled latent space of
a separately trained auto-encoder. In this paper, we introduce Matryoshka
Diffusion Models(MDM), an end-to-end framework for high-resolution image and
video synthesis. We propose a diffusion process that denoises inputs at
multiple resolutions jointly and uses a NestedUNet architecture where features
and parameters for small-scale inputs are nested within those of large scales.
In addition, MDM enables a progressive training schedule from lower to higher
resolutions, which leads to significant improvements in optimization for
high-resolution generation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on
various benchmarks, including class-conditioned image generation,
high-resolution text-to-image, and text-to-video applications. Remarkably, we
can train a single pixel-space model at resolutions of up to 1024x1024 pixels,
demonstrating strong zero-shot generalization using the CC12M dataset, which
contains only 12 million images.

---

## 2. [HallusionBench: You See What You Think? Or You Think What You See? An
  Image-Context Reasoning Benchmark Challenging for GPT-4V(ision), LLaVA-1.5,
  and Other Multi-modality Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.14566)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.14566](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.14566)

**Authors**: Fuxiao Liu, Tianrui Guan, Zongxia Li, Lichang Chen, Yaser Yacoob, Dinesh Manocha, Tianyi Zhou

**Published**: 2023-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tianyi-lab/hallusionbench)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs), after being aligned with vision models and
integrated into vision-language models (VLMs), can bring impressive improvement
in image reasoning tasks. This was shown by the recently released GPT-4V(ison),
LLaVA-1.5, etc. However, the strong language prior in these SOTA LVLMs can be a
double-edged sword: they may ignore the image context and solely rely on the
(even contradictory) language prior for reasoning. In contrast, the vision
modules in VLMs are weaker than LLMs and may result in misleading visual
representations, which are then translated to confident mistakes by LLMs. To
study these two types of VLM mistakes, i.e., language hallucination and visual
illusion, we curated HallusionBench, an image-context reasoning benchmark that
is still challenging to even GPT-4V and LLaVA-1.5. We provide a detailed
analysis of examples in HallusionBench, which sheds novel insights on the
illusion or hallucination of VLMs and how to improve them in the future. The
benchmark and codebase will be released at
https://github.com/tianyi-lab/HallusionBench.

---

## 3. [DEsignBench: Exploring and Benchmarking DALL-E 3 for Imagining Visual
  Design](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.15144)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.15144](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15144)

**Authors**: Kevin Lin, Zhengyuan Yang, Linjie Li, Jianfeng Wang, Lijuan Wang

**Published**: 2023-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

We introduce DEsignBench, a text-to-image (T2I) generation benchmark tailored
for visual design scenarios. Recent T2I models like DALL-E 3 and others, have
demonstrated remarkable capabilities in generating photorealistic images that
align closely with textual inputs. While the allure of creating visually
captivating images is undeniable, our emphasis extends beyond mere aesthetic
pleasure. We aim to investigate the potential of using these powerful models in
authentic design contexts. In pursuit of this goal, we develop DEsignBench,
which incorporates test samples designed to assess T2I models on both "design
technical capability" and "design application scenario." Each of these two
dimensions is supported by a diverse set of specific design categories. We
explore DALL-E 3 together with other leading T2I models on DEsignBench,
resulting in a comprehensive visual gallery for side-by-side comparisons. For
DEsignBench benchmarking, we perform human evaluations on generated images in
DEsignBench gallery, against the criteria of image-text alignment, visual
aesthetic, and design creativity. Our evaluation also considers other
specialized design capabilities, including text rendering, layout composition,
color harmony, 3D design, and medium style. In addition to human evaluations,
we introduce the first automatic image generation evaluator powered by GPT-4V.
This evaluator provides ratings that align well with human judgments, while
being easily replicable and cost-efficient. A high-resolution version is
available at
https://github.com/design-bench/design-bench.github.io/raw/main/designbench.pdf?download=

---

## 4. [FreeNoise: Tuning-Free Longer Video Diffusion Via Noise Rescheduling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.15169)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.15169](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15169)

**Authors**: Haonan Qiu, Menghan Xia, Yong Zhang, Yingqing He, Xintao Wang, Ying Shan, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2023-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/AILab-CVC/FreeNoise)

### Abstract

With the availability of large-scale video datasets and the advances of
diffusion models, text-driven video generation has achieved substantial
progress. However, existing video generation models are typically trained on a
limited number of frames, resulting in the inability to generate high-fidelity
long videos during inference. Furthermore, these models only support
single-text conditions, whereas real-life scenarios often require multi-text
conditions as the video content changes over time. To tackle these challenges,
this study explores the potential of extending the text-driven capability to
generate longer videos conditioned on multiple texts. 1) We first analyze the
impact of initial noise in video diffusion models. Then building upon the
observation of noise, we propose FreeNoise, a tuning-free and time-efficient
paradigm to enhance the generative capabilities of pretrained video diffusion
models while preserving content consistency. Specifically, instead of
initializing noises for all frames, we reschedule a sequence of noises for
long-range correlation and perform temporal attention over them by window-based
function. 2) Additionally, we design a novel motion injection method to support
the generation of videos conditioned on multiple text prompts. Extensive
experiments validate the superiority of our paradigm in extending the
generative capabilities of video diffusion models. It is noteworthy that
compared with the previous best-performing method which brought about 255%
extra time cost, our method incurs only negligible time cost of approximately
17%. Generated video samples are available at our website:
http://haonanqiu.com/projects/FreeNoise.html.

---

## 5. [Exploring the Boundaries of GPT-4 in Radiology](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.14573)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.14573](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.14573)

**Authors**: Qianchu Liu, Stephanie Hyland, Shruthi Bannur, Kenza Bouzid, Daniel C. Castro, Maria Teodora Wetscherek, Robert Tinn, Harshita Sharma, Fernando Pérez-García, Anton Schwaighofer, Pranav Rajpurkar, Sameer Tajdin Khanna, Hoifung Poon, Naoto Usuyama, Anja Thieme, Aditya V. Nori, Matthew P. Lungren, Ozan Oktay, Javier Alvarez-Valle

**Published**: 2023-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

The recent success of general-domain large language models (LLMs) has
significantly changed the natural language processing paradigm towards a
unified foundation model across domains and applications. In this paper, we
focus on assessing the performance of GPT-4, the most capable LLM so far, on
the text-based applications for radiology reports, comparing against
state-of-the-art (SOTA) radiology-specific models. Exploring various prompting
strategies, we evaluated GPT-4 on a diverse range of common radiology tasks and
we found GPT-4 either outperforms or is on par with current SOTA radiology
models. With zero-shot prompting, GPT-4 already obtains substantial gains
(approx 10% absolute improvement) over radiology models in temporal sentence
similarity classification (accuracy) and natural language inference (F_1).
For tasks that require learning dataset-specific style or schema (e.g. findings
summarisation), GPT-4 improves with example-based prompting and matches
supervised SOTA. Our extensive error analysis with a board-certified
radiologist shows GPT-4 has a sufficient level of radiology knowledge with only
occasional errors in complex context that require nuanced domain knowledge. For
findings summarisation, GPT-4 outputs are found to be overall comparable with
existing manually-written impressions.

---

## 6. [Habitat 3.0: A Co-Habitat for Humans, Avatars and Robots](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13724)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13724](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13724)

**Authors**: Xavier Puig, Eric Undersander, Andrew Szot, Mikael Dallaire Cote, Tsung-Yen Yang, Ruslan Partsey, Ruta Desai, Alexander William Clegg, Michal Hlavac, So Yeon Min, Vladimír Vondruš, Theophile Gervet, Vincent-Pierre Berges, John M. Turner, Oleksandr Maksymets, Zsolt Kira, Mrinal Kalakrishnan, Jitendra Malik, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Unnat Jain, Dhruv Batra, Akshara Rai, Roozbeh Mottaghi

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

We present Habitat 3.0: a simulation platform for studying collaborative
human-robot tasks in home environments. Habitat 3.0 offers contributions across
three dimensions: (1) Accurate humanoid simulation: addressing challenges in
modeling complex deformable bodies and diversity in appearance and motion, all
while ensuring high simulation speed. (2) Human-in-the-loop infrastructure:
enabling real human interaction with simulated robots via mouse/keyboard or a
VR interface, facilitating evaluation of robot policies with human input. (3)
Collaborative tasks: studying two collaborative tasks, Social Navigation and
Social Rearrangement. Social Navigation investigates a robot's ability to
locate and follow humanoid avatars in unseen environments, whereas Social
Rearrangement addresses collaboration between a humanoid and robot while
rearranging a scene. These contributions allow us to study end-to-end learned
and heuristic baselines for human-robot collaboration in-depth, as well as
evaluate them with humans in the loop. Our experiments demonstrate that learned
robot policies lead to efficient task completion when collaborating with unseen
humanoid agents and human partners that might exhibit behaviors that the robot
has not seen before. Additionally, we observe emergent behaviors during
collaborative task execution, such as the robot yielding space when obstructing
a humanoid agent, thereby allowing the effective completion of the task by the
humanoid agent. Furthermore, our experiments using the human-in-the-loop tool
demonstrate that our automated evaluation with humanoids can provide an
indication of the relative ordering of different policies when evaluated with
real human collaborators. Habitat 3.0 unlocks interesting new features in
simulators for Embodied AI, and we hope it paves the way for a new frontier of
embodied human-AI interaction capabilities.

---

## 7. [Branch-Solve-Merge Improves Large Language Model Evaluation and
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.15123)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.15123](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15123)

**Authors**: Swarnadeep Saha, Omer Levy, Asli Celikyilmaz, Mohit Bansal, Jason Weston, Xian Li

**Published**: 2023-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) are frequently used for multi-faceted language
generation and evaluation tasks that involve satisfying intricate user
constraints or taking into account multiple aspects and criteria. However,
their performance can fall short, due to the model's lack of coherence and
inability to plan and decompose the problem. We propose Branch-Solve-Merge
(BSM), a Large Language Model program (Schlag et al., 2023) for tackling such
challenging natural language tasks. It consists of branch, solve, and merge
modules that are parameterized with specific prompts to the base LLM. These
three modules plan a decomposition of the task into multiple parallel
sub-tasks, independently solve them, and fuse the solutions to the sub-tasks.
We apply our method to the tasks of LLM response evaluation and constrained
text generation and evaluate its effectiveness with multiple LLMs, including
Vicuna, LLaMA-2-chat, and GPT-4. BSM improves the evaluation correctness and
consistency for each LLM by enhancing human-LLM agreement by up to 26%,
reducing length and pairwise position biases by up to 50%, and allowing
LLaMA-2-chat to match or outperform GPT-4 on most domains. On the constraint
story generation task, BSM improves the coherence of the stories while also
improving constraint satisfaction by 12%.

---

## 8. [TexFusion: Synthesizing 3D Textures with Text-Guided Image Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13772)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13772](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13772)

**Authors**: Tianshi Cao, Karsten Kreis, Sanja Fidler, Nicholas Sharp, Kangxue Yin

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

We present TexFusion (Texture Diffusion), a new method to synthesize textures
for given 3D geometries, using large-scale text-guided image diffusion models.
In contrast to recent works that leverage 2D text-to-image diffusion models to
distill 3D objects using a slow and fragile optimization process, TexFusion
introduces a new 3D-consistent generation technique specifically designed for
texture synthesis that employs regular diffusion model sampling on different 2D
rendered views. Specifically, we leverage latent diffusion models, apply the
diffusion model's denoiser on a set of 2D renders of the 3D object, and
aggregate the different denoising predictions on a shared latent texture map.
Final output RGB textures are produced by optimizing an intermediate neural
color field on the decodings of 2D renders of the latent texture. We thoroughly
validate TexFusion and show that we can efficiently generate diverse, high
quality and globally coherent textures. We achieve state-of-the-art text-guided
texture synthesis performance using only image diffusion models, while avoiding
the pitfalls of previous distillation-based methods. The text-conditioning
offers detailed control and we also do not rely on any ground truth 3D textures
for training. This makes our method versatile and applicable to a broad range
of geometry and texture types. We hope that TexFusion will advance AI-based
texturing of 3D assets for applications in virtual reality, game design,
simulation, and more.

---

## 9. [Localizing and Editing Knowledge in Text-to-Image Generative Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13730)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13730](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13730)

**Authors**: Samyadeep Basu, Nanxuan Zhao, Vlad Morariu, Soheil Feizi, Varun Manjunatha

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Text-to-Image Diffusion Models such as Stable-Diffusion and Imagen have
achieved unprecedented quality of photorealism with state-of-the-art FID scores
on MS-COCO and other generation benchmarks. Given a caption, image generation
requires fine-grained knowledge about attributes such as object structure,
style, and viewpoint amongst others. Where does this information reside in
text-to-image generative models? In our paper, we tackle this question and
understand how knowledge corresponding to distinct visual attributes is stored
in large-scale text-to-image diffusion models. We adapt Causal Mediation
Analysis for text-to-image models and trace knowledge about distinct visual
attributes to various (causal) components in the (i) UNet and (ii) text-encoder
of the diffusion model. In particular, we show that unlike generative
large-language models, knowledge about different attributes is not localized in
isolated components, but is instead distributed amongst a set of components in
the conditional UNet. These sets of components are often distinct for different
visual attributes. Remarkably, we find that the CLIP text-encoder in public
text-to-image models such as Stable-Diffusion contains only one causal state
across different visual attributes, and this is the first self-attention layer
corresponding to the last subject token of the attribute in the caption. This
is in stark contrast to the causal states in other language models which are
often the mid-MLP layers. Based on this observation of only one causal state in
the text-encoder, we introduce a fast, data-free model editing method
Diff-QuickFix which can effectively edit concepts in text-to-image models.
DiffQuickFix can edit (ablate) concepts in under a second with a closed-form
update, providing a significant 1000x speedup and comparable editing
performance to existing fine-tuning based editing methods.

---

## 10. [Ensemble-Instruct: Generating Instruction-Tuning Data with a
  Heterogeneous Mixture of LMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13961)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13961](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13961)

**Authors**: Young-Suk Lee, Md Arafat Sultan, Yousef El-Kurdi, Tahira Naseem Asim Munawar, Radu Florian, Salim Roukos, Ramón Fernandez Astudillo

**Published**: 2023-10-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ibm/ensemble-instruct)

### Abstract

Using in-context learning (ICL) for data generation, techniques such as
Self-Instruct (Wang et al., 2023) or the follow-up Alpaca (Taori et al., 2023)
can train strong conversational agents with only a small amount of human
supervision. One limitation of these approaches is that they resort to very
large language models (around 175B parameters) that are also proprietary and
non-public. Here we explore the application of such techniques to language
models that are much smaller (around 10B--40B parameters) and have permissive
licenses. We find the Self-Instruct approach to be less effective at these
sizes and propose new ICL methods that draw on two main ideas: (a)
Categorization and simplification of the ICL templates to make prompt learning
easier for the LM, and (b) Ensembling over multiple LM outputs to help select
high-quality synthetic examples. Our algorithm leverages the 175 Self-Instruct
seed tasks and employs separate pipelines for instructions that require an
input and instructions that do not. Empirical investigations with different LMs
show that: (1) Our proposed method yields higher-quality instruction tuning
data than Self-Instruct, (2) It improves performances of both vanilla and
instruction-tuned LMs by significant margins, and (3) Smaller instruction-tuned
LMs generate more useful outputs than their larger un-tuned counterparts. Our
codebase is available at https://github.com/IBM/ensemble-instruct.

---

## 11. [Specific versus General Principles for Constitutional AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13798)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13798](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13798)

**Authors**: Sandipan Kundu, Yuntao Bai, Saurav Kadavath, Amanda Askell, Andrew Callahan, Anna Chen, Anna Goldie, Avital Balwit, Azalia Mirhoseini, Brayden McLean, Catherine Olsson, Cassie Evraets, Eli Tran-Johnson, Esin Durmus, Ethan Perez, Jackson Kernion, Jamie Kerr, Kamal Ndousse, Karina Nguyen, Nelson Elhage, Newton Cheng, Nicholas Schiefer, Nova DasSarma, Oliver Rausch, Robin Larson, Shannon Yang, Shauna Kravec, Timothy Telleen-Lawton, Thomas I. Liao, Tom Henighan, Tristan Hume, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Sören Mindermann, Nicholas Joseph, Sam McCandlish, Jared Kaplan

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Human feedback can prevent overtly harmful utterances in conversational
models, but may not automatically mitigate subtle problematic behaviors such as
a stated desire for self-preservation or power. Constitutional AI offers an
alternative, replacing human feedback with feedback from AI models conditioned
only on a list of written principles. We find this approach effectively
prevents the expression of such behaviors. The success of simple principles
motivates us to ask: can models learn general ethical behaviors from only a
single written principle? To test this, we run experiments using a principle
roughly stated as "do what's best for humanity". We find that the largest
dialogue models can generalize from this short constitution, resulting in
harmless assistants with no stated interest in specific motivations like power.
A general principle may thus partially avoid the need for a long list of
constitutions targeting potentially harmful behaviors. However, more detailed
constitutions still improve fine-grained control over specific types of harms.
This suggests both general and specific principles have value for steering AI
safely.

---

## 12. [InstructExcel: A Benchmark for Natural Language Instruction in Excel](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.14495)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.14495](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.14495)

**Authors**: Justin Payan, Swaroop Mishra, Mukul Singh, Carina Negreanu, Christian Poelitz, Chitta Baral, Subhro Roy, Rasika Chakravarthy, Benjamin Van Durme, Elnaz Nouri

**Published**: 2023-10-23 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

With the evolution of Large Language Models (LLMs) we can solve increasingly
more complex NLP tasks across various domains, including spreadsheets. This
work investigates whether LLMs can generate code (Excel OfficeScripts, a
TypeScript API for executing many tasks in Excel) that solves Excel specific
tasks provided via natural language user instructions. To do so we introduce a
new large-scale benchmark, InstructExcel, created by leveraging the 'Automate'
feature in Excel to automatically generate OfficeScripts from users' actions.
Our benchmark includes over 10k samples covering 170+ Excel operations across
2,000 publicly available Excel spreadsheets. Experiments across various
zero-shot and few-shot settings show that InstructExcel is a hard benchmark for
state of the art models like GPT-4. We observe that (1) using GPT-4 over
GPT-3.5, (2) providing more in-context examples, and (3) dynamic prompting can
help improve performance on this benchmark.

---
