# Daily Papers - 2023-10-20

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-10-20)

Total papers: 10

---

## 1. [3D-GPT: Procedural 3D Modeling with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.12945)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.12945](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12945)

**Authors**: Chunyi Sun, Junlin Han, Weijian Deng, Xinlong Wang, Zishan Qin, Stephen Gould

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 61

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Chuny1/3DGPT)

### Abstract

In the pursuit of efficient automated content creation, procedural
generation, leveraging modifiable parameters and rule-based systems, emerges as
a promising approach. Nonetheless, it could be a demanding endeavor, given its
intricate nature necessitating a deep understanding of rules, algorithms, and
parameters. To reduce workload, we introduce 3D-GPT, a framework utilizing
large language models~(LLMs) for instruction-driven 3D modeling. 3D-GPT
positions LLMs as proficient problem solvers, dissecting the procedural 3D
modeling tasks into accessible segments and appointing the apt agent for each
task. 3D-GPT integrates three core agents: the task dispatch agent, the
conceptualization agent, and the modeling agent. They collaboratively achieve
two objectives. First, it enhances concise initial scene descriptions, evolving
them into detailed forms while dynamically adapting the text based on
subsequent instructions. Second, it integrates procedural generation,
extracting parameter values from enriched text to effortlessly interface with
3D software for asset creation. Our empirical investigations confirm that
3D-GPT not only interprets and executes instructions, delivering reliable
results but also collaborates effectively with human designers. Furthermore, it
seamlessly integrates with Blender, unlocking expanded manipulation
possibilities. Our work highlights the potential of LLMs in 3D modeling,
offering a basic framework for future advancements in scene generation and
animation.

---

## 2. [AgentTuning: Enabling Generalized Agent Abilities for LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.12823)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.12823](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12823)

**Authors**: Aohan Zeng, Mingdao Liu, Rui Lu, Bowen Wang, Xiao Liu, Yuxiao Dong, Jie Tang

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 36

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thudm/agenttuning)

### Abstract

Open large language models (LLMs) with great performance in various tasks
have significantly advanced the development of LLMs. However, they are far
inferior to commercial models such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 when acting as agents
to tackle complex tasks in the real world. These agent tasks employ LLMs as the
central controller responsible for planning, memorization, and tool
utilization, necessitating both fine-grained prompting methods and robust LLMs
to achieve satisfactory performance. Though many prompting methods have been
proposed to complete particular agent tasks, there is lack of research focusing
on improving the agent capabilities of LLMs themselves without compromising
their general abilities. In this work, we present AgentTuning, a simple and
general method to enhance the agent abilities of LLMs while maintaining their
general LLM capabilities. We construct AgentInstruct, a lightweight
instruction-tuning dataset containing high-quality interaction trajectories. We
employ a hybrid instruction-tuning strategy by combining AgentInstruct with
open-source instructions from general domains. AgentTuning is used to
instruction-tune the Llama 2 series, resulting in AgentLM. Our evaluations show
that AgentTuning enables LLMs' agent capabilities without compromising general
abilities. The AgentLM-70B is comparable to GPT-3.5-turbo on unseen agent
tasks, demonstrating generalized agent capabilities. We open source the
AgentInstruct and AgentLM-7B, 13B, and 70B models at
https://github.com/THUDM/AgentTuning , serving open and powerful alternatives
to commercial LLMs for agent tasks.

---

## 3. [Safe RLHF: Safe Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.12773)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.12773](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12773)

**Authors**: Josef Dai, Xuehai Pan, Ruiyang Sun, Jiaming Ji, Xinbo Xu, Mickel Liu, Yizhou Wang, Yaodong Yang

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pku-alignment/safe-rlhf)

### Abstract

With the development of large language models (LLMs), striking a balance
between the performance and safety of AI systems has never been more critical.
However, the inherent tension between the objectives of helpfulness and
harmlessness presents a significant challenge during LLM training. To address
this issue, we propose Safe Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (Safe
RLHF), a novel algorithm for human value alignment. Safe RLHF explicitly
decouples human preferences regarding helpfulness and harmlessness, effectively
avoiding the crowdworkers' confusion about the tension and allowing us to train
separate reward and cost models. We formalize the safety concern of LLMs as an
optimization task of maximizing the reward function while satisfying specified
cost constraints. Leveraging the Lagrangian method to solve this constrained
problem, Safe RLHF dynamically adjusts the balance between the two objectives
during fine-tuning. Through a three-round fine-tuning using Safe RLHF, we
demonstrate a superior ability to mitigate harmful responses while enhancing
model performance compared to existing value-aligned algorithms.
Experimentally, we fine-tuned the Alpaca-7B using Safe RLHF and aligned it with
collected human preferences, significantly improving its helpfulness and
harmlessness according to human evaluations.

---

## 4. [Eureka: Human-Level Reward Design via Coding Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.12931)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.12931](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12931)

**Authors**: Yecheng Jason Ma, William Liang, Guanzhi Wang, De-An Huang, Osbert Bastani, Dinesh Jayaraman, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, Anima Anandkumar

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/eureka-research/Eureka)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have excelled as high-level semantic planners
for sequential decision-making tasks. However, harnessing them to learn complex
low-level manipulation tasks, such as dexterous pen spinning, remains an open
problem. We bridge this fundamental gap and present Eureka, a human-level
reward design algorithm powered by LLMs. Eureka exploits the remarkable
zero-shot generation, code-writing, and in-context improvement capabilities of
state-of-the-art LLMs, such as GPT-4, to perform evolutionary optimization over
reward code. The resulting rewards can then be used to acquire complex skills
via reinforcement learning. Without any task-specific prompting or pre-defined
reward templates, Eureka generates reward functions that outperform expert
human-engineered rewards. In a diverse suite of 29 open-source RL environments
that include 10 distinct robot morphologies, Eureka outperforms human experts
on 83% of the tasks, leading to an average normalized improvement of 52%. The
generality of Eureka also enables a new gradient-free in-context learning
approach to reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), readily
incorporating human inputs to improve the quality and the safety of the
generated rewards without model updating. Finally, using Eureka rewards in a
curriculum learning setting, we demonstrate for the first time, a simulated
Shadow Hand capable of performing pen spinning tricks, adeptly manipulating a
pen in circles at rapid speed.

---

## 5. [Vision-Language Models are Zero-Shot Reward Models for Reinforcement
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.12921)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.12921](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12921)

**Authors**: Juan Rocamonde, Victoriano Montesinos, Elvis Nava, Ethan Perez, David Lindner

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/alignmentresearch/vlmrm)

### Abstract

Reinforcement learning (RL) requires either manually specifying a reward
function, which is often infeasible, or learning a reward model from a large
amount of human feedback, which is often very expensive. We study a more
sample-efficient alternative: using pretrained vision-language models (VLMs) as
zero-shot reward models (RMs) to specify tasks via natural language. We propose
a natural and general approach to using VLMs as reward models, which we call
VLM-RMs. We use VLM-RMs based on CLIP to train a MuJoCo humanoid to learn
complex tasks without a manually specified reward function, such as kneeling,
doing the splits, and sitting in a lotus position. For each of these tasks, we
only provide a single sentence text prompt describing the desired task with
minimal prompt engineering. We provide videos of the trained agents at:
https://sites.google.com/view/vlm-rm. We can improve performance by providing a
second ``baseline'' prompt and projecting out parts of the CLIP embedding space
irrelevant to distinguish between goal and baseline. Further, we find a strong
scaling effect for VLM-RMs: larger VLMs trained with more compute and data are
better reward models. The failure modes of VLM-RMs we encountered are all
related to known capability limitations of current VLMs, such as limited
spatial reasoning ability or visually unrealistic environments that are far
off-distribution for the VLM. We find that VLM-RMs are remarkably robust as
long as the VLM is large enough. This suggests that future VLMs will become
more and more useful reward models for a wide range of RL applications.

---

## 6. [Loop Copilot: Conducting AI Ensembles for Music Generation and Iterative
  Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.12404)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.12404](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12404)

**Authors**: Yixiao Zhang, Akira Maezawa, Gus Xia, Kazuhiko Yamamoto, Simon Dixon

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ldzhangyx/loop-copilot)

### Abstract

Creating music is iterative, requiring varied methods at each stage. However,
existing AI music systems fall short in orchestrating multiple subsystems for
diverse needs. To address this gap, we introduce Loop Copilot, a novel system
that enables users to generate and iteratively refine music through an
interactive, multi-round dialogue interface. The system uses a large language
model to interpret user intentions and select appropriate AI models for task
execution. Each backend model is specialized for a specific task, and their
outputs are aggregated to meet the user's requirements. To ensure musical
coherence, essential attributes are maintained in a centralized table. We
evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed system through semi-structured
interviews and questionnaires, highlighting its utility not only in
facilitating music creation but also its potential for broader applications.

---

## 7. [AutoMix: Automatically Mixing Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.12963)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.12963](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12963)

**Authors**: Aman Madaan, Pranjal Aggarwal, Ankit Anand, Srividya Pranavi Potharaju, Swaroop Mishra, Pei Zhou, Aditya Gupta, Dheeraj Rajagopal, Karthik Kappaganthu, Yiming Yang, Shyam Upadhyay, Mausam, Manaal Faruqui

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/automix-llm/automix)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are now available in various sizes and
configurations from cloud API providers. While this diversity offers a broad
spectrum of choices, effectively leveraging the options to optimize
computational cost and performance remains challenging. In this work, we
present AutoMix, an approach that strategically routes queries to larger LMs,
based on the approximate correctness of outputs from a smaller LM. Central to
AutoMix is a few-shot self-verification mechanism, which estimates the
reliability of its own outputs without requiring training. Given that
verifications can be noisy, we employ a meta verifier in AutoMix to refine the
accuracy of these assessments. Our experiments using LLAMA2-13/70B, on five
context-grounded reasoning datasets demonstrate that AutoMix surpasses
established baselines, improving the incremental benefit per cost by up to 89%.
Our code and data are available at https://github.com/automix-llm/automix.

---

## 8. [An Emulator for Fine-Tuning Large Language Models using Small Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.12962)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.12962](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12962)

**Authors**: Eric Mitchell, Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Chelsea Finn, Christopher D. Manning

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Widely used language models (LMs) are typically built by scaling up a
two-stage training pipeline: a pre-training stage that uses a very large,
diverse dataset of text and a fine-tuning (sometimes, 'alignment') stage that
uses targeted examples or other specifications of desired behaviors. While it
has been hypothesized that knowledge and skills come from pre-training, and
fine-tuning mostly filters this knowledge and skillset, this intuition has not
been extensively tested. To aid in doing so, we introduce a novel technique for
decoupling the knowledge and skills gained in these two stages, enabling a
direct answer to the question, "What would happen if we combined the knowledge
learned by a large model during pre-training with the knowledge learned by a
small model during fine-tuning (or vice versa)?" Using an RL-based framework
derived from recent developments in learning from human preferences, we
introduce emulated fine-tuning (EFT), a principled and practical method for
sampling from a distribution that approximates (or 'emulates') the result of
pre-training and fine-tuning at different scales. Our experiments with EFT show
that scaling up fine-tuning tends to improve helpfulness, while scaling up
pre-training tends to improve factuality. Beyond decoupling scale, we show that
EFT enables test-time adjustment of competing behavioral traits like
helpfulness and harmlessness without additional training. Finally, a special
case of emulated fine-tuning, which we call LM up-scaling, avoids
resource-intensive fine-tuning of large pre-trained models by ensembling them
with small fine-tuned models, essentially emulating the result of fine-tuning
the large pre-trained model. Up-scaling consistently improves helpfulness and
factuality of instruction-following models in the Llama, Llama-2, and Falcon
families, without additional hyperparameters or training.

---

## 9. [An Image is Worth Multiple Words: Learning Object Level Concepts using
  Multi-Concept Prompt Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.12274)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.12274](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12274)

**Authors**: Chen Jin, Ryutaro Tanno, Amrutha Saseendran, Tom Diethe, Philip Teare

**Published**: 2023-10-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Textural Inversion, a prompt learning method, learns a singular embedding for
a new "word" to represent image style and appearance, allowing it to be
integrated into natural language sentences to generate novel synthesised
images. However, identifying and integrating multiple object-level concepts
within one scene poses significant challenges even when embeddings for
individual concepts are attainable. This is further confirmed by our empirical
tests. To address this challenge, we introduce a framework for Multi-Concept
Prompt Learning (MCPL), where multiple new "words" are simultaneously learned
from a single sentence-image pair. To enhance the accuracy of word-concept
correlation, we propose three regularisation techniques: Attention Masking
(AttnMask) to concentrate learning on relevant areas; Prompts Contrastive Loss
(PromptCL) to separate the embeddings of different concepts; and Bind adjective
(Bind adj.) to associate new "words" with known words. We evaluate via image
generation, editing, and attention visualisation with diverse images. Extensive
quantitative comparisons demonstrate that our method can learn more
semantically disentangled concepts with enhanced word-concept correlation.
Additionally, we introduce a novel dataset and evaluation protocol tailored for
this new task of learning object-level concepts.

---

## 10. [Enhancing High-Resolution 3D Generation through Pixel-wise Gradient
  Clipping](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.12474)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.12474](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12474)

**Authors**: Zijie Pan, Jiachen Lu, Xiatian Zhu, Li Zhang

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/fudan-zvg/pgc-3d)

### Abstract

High-resolution 3D object generation remains a challenging task primarily due
to the limited availability of comprehensive annotated training data. Recent
advancements have aimed to overcome this constraint by harnessing image
generative models, pretrained on extensive curated web datasets, using
knowledge transfer techniques like Score Distillation Sampling (SDS).
Efficiently addressing the requirements of high-resolution rendering often
necessitates the adoption of latent representation-based models, such as the
Latent Diffusion Model (LDM). In this framework, a significant challenge
arises: To compute gradients for individual image pixels, it is necessary to
backpropagate gradients from the designated latent space through the frozen
components of the image model, such as the VAE encoder used within LDM.
However, this gradient propagation pathway has never been optimized, remaining
uncontrolled during training. We find that the unregulated gradients adversely
affect the 3D model's capacity in acquiring texture-related information from
the image generative model, leading to poor quality appearance synthesis. To
address this overarching challenge, we propose an innovative operation termed
Pixel-wise Gradient Clipping (PGC) designed for seamless integration into
existing 3D generative models, thereby enhancing their synthesis quality.
Specifically, we control the magnitude of stochastic gradients by clipping the
pixel-wise gradients efficiently, while preserving crucial texture-related
gradient directions. Despite this simplicity and minimal extra cost, extensive
experiments demonstrate the efficacy of our PGC in enhancing the performance of
existing 3D generative models for high-resolution object rendering.

---
