# Daily Papers - 2023-10-23

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-10-23)

Total papers: 15

---

## 1. [Contrastive Prefence Learning: Learning from Human Feedback without RL](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13639)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13639](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13639)

**Authors**: Joey Hejna, Rafael Rafailov, Harshit Sikchi, Chelsea Finn, Scott Niekum, W. Bradley Knox, Dorsa Sadigh

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has emerged as a popular
paradigm for aligning models with human intent. Typically RLHF algorithms
operate in two phases: first, use human preferences to learn a reward function
and second, align the model by optimizing the learned reward via reinforcement
learning (RL). This paradigm assumes that human preferences are distributed
according to reward, but recent work suggests that they instead follow the
regret under the user's optimal policy. Thus, learning a reward function from
feedback is not only based on a flawed assumption of human preference, but also
leads to unwieldy optimization challenges that stem from policy gradients or
bootstrapping in the RL phase. Because of these optimization challenges,
contemporary RLHF methods restrict themselves to contextual bandit settings
(e.g., as in large language models) or limit observation dimensionality (e.g.,
state-based robotics). We overcome these limitations by introducing a new
family of algorithms for optimizing behavior from human feedback using the
regret-based model of human preferences. Using the principle of maximum
entropy, we derive Contrastive Preference Learning (CPL), an algorithm for
learning optimal policies from preferences without learning reward functions,
circumventing the need for RL. CPL is fully off-policy, uses only a simple
contrastive objective, and can be applied to arbitrary MDPs. This enables CPL
to elegantly scale to high-dimensional and sequential RLHF problems while being
simpler than prior methods.

---

## 2. [Let's Synthesize Step by Step: Iterative Dataset Synthesis with Large
  Language Models by Extrapolating Errors from Small Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13671)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13671](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13671)

**Authors**: Ruida Wang, Wangchunshu Zhou, Mrinmaya Sachan

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/rickyskywalker/synthesis_step-by-step_official)

### Abstract

*Data Synthesis* is a promising way to train a small model with very little
labeled data. One approach for data synthesis is to leverage the rich knowledge
from large language models to synthesize pseudo training examples for small
models, making it possible to achieve both data and compute efficiency at the
same time. However, a key challenge in data synthesis is that the synthesized
dataset often suffers from a large distributional discrepancy from the *real
task* data distribution. Thus, in this paper, we propose *Synthesis Step by
Step* (**S3**), a data synthesis framework that shrinks this distribution gap
by iteratively extrapolating the errors made by a small model trained on the
synthesized dataset on a small real-world validation dataset using a large
language model. Extensive experiments on multiple NLP tasks show that our
approach improves the performance of a small model by reducing the gap between
the synthetic dataset and the real data, resulting in significant improvement
compared to several baselines: 9.48% improvement compared to ZeroGen and 2.73%
compared to GoldGen, and at most 15.17% improvement compared to the small model
trained on human-annotated data.

---

## 3. [DPM-Solver-v3: Improved Diffusion ODE Solver with Empirical Model
  Statistics](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13268)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13268](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13268)

**Authors**: Kaiwen Zheng, Cheng Lu, Jianfei Chen, Jun Zhu

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thu-ml/DPM-Solver-v3) | [Project Page](https://ml.cs.tsinghua.edu.cn/dpmv3/)

### Abstract

Diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs) have exhibited excellent performance
for high-fidelity image generation while suffering from inefficient sampling.
Recent works accelerate the sampling procedure by proposing fast ODE solvers
that leverage the specific ODE form of DPMs. However, they highly rely on
specific parameterization during inference (such as noise/data prediction),
which might not be the optimal choice. In this work, we propose a novel
formulation towards the optimal parameterization during sampling that minimizes
the first-order discretization error of the ODE solution. Based on such
formulation, we propose DPM-Solver-v3, a new fast ODE solver for DPMs
by introducing several coefficients efficiently computed on the pretrained
model, which we call empirical model statistics. We further
incorporate multistep methods and a predictor-corrector framework, and propose
some techniques for improving sample quality at small numbers of function
evaluations (NFE) or large guidance scales. Experiments show that DPM-Solver-v3
achieves consistently better or comparable performance in both unconditional
and conditional sampling with both pixel-space and latent-space DPMs,
especially in 5sim10 NFEs. We achieve FIDs of 12.21 (5 NFE), 2.51 (10 NFE)
on unconditional CIFAR10, and MSE of 0.55 (5 NFE, 7.5 guidance scale) on Stable
Diffusion, bringing a speed-up of 15\%sim30\% compared to previous
state-of-the-art training-free methods. Code is available at
https://github.com/thu-ml/DPM-Solver-v3.

---

## 4. [SALMONN: Towards Generic Hearing Abilities for Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13289)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13289](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13289)

**Authors**: Changli Tang, Wenyi Yu, Guangzhi Sun, Xianzhao Chen, Tian Tan, Wei Li, Lu Lu, Zejun Ma, Chao Zhang

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bytedance/salmonn)

### Abstract

Hearing is arguably an essential ability of artificial intelligence (AI)
agents in the physical world, which refers to the perception and understanding
of general auditory information consisting of at least three types of sounds:
speech, audio events, and music. In this paper, we propose SALMONN, a speech
audio language music open neural network, built by integrating a pre-trained
text-based large language model (LLM) with speech and audio encoders into a
single multimodal model. SALMONN enables the LLM to directly process and
understand general audio inputs and achieve competitive performances on a
number of speech and audio tasks used in training, such as automatic speech
recognition and translation, auditory-information-based question answering,
emotion recognition, speaker verification, and music and audio captioning
etc. SALMONN also has a diverse set of emergent abilities unseen in
the training, which includes but is not limited to speech translation to
untrained languages, speech-based slot filling, spoken-query-based question
answering, audio-based storytelling, and speech audio co-reasoning
etc. The presence of the cross-modal emergent abilities is studied,
and a novel few-shot activation tuning approach is proposed to activate such
abilities of SALMONN. To our knowledge, SALMONN is the first model of its type
and can be regarded as a step towards AI with generic hearing abilities. An
interactive demo of SALMONN is available at
\url{https://github.com/bytedance/SALMONN}, and the training code and
model checkpoints will be released upon acceptance.

---

## 5. [Democratizing Reasoning Ability: Tailored Learning from Large Language
  Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13332)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13332](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13332)

**Authors**: Zhaoyang Wang, Shaohan Huang, Yuxuan Liu, Jiahai Wang, Minghui Song, Zihan Zhang, Haizhen Huang, Furu Wei, Weiwei Deng, Feng Sun, Qi Zhang

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/raibows/learn-to-reason)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) exhibit impressive emergent abilities in natural
language processing, but their democratization is hindered due to huge
computation requirements and closed-source nature. Recent research on advancing
open-source smaller LMs by distilling knowledge from black-box LLMs has
obtained promising results in the instruction-following ability. However, the
reasoning ability which is more challenging to foster, is relatively rarely
explored. In this paper, we propose a tailored learning approach to distill
such reasoning ability to smaller LMs to facilitate the democratization of the
exclusive reasoning ability. In contrast to merely employing LLM as a data
annotator, we exploit the potential of LLM as a reasoning teacher by building
an interactive multi-round learning paradigm. This paradigm enables the student
to expose its deficiencies to the black-box teacher who then can provide
customized training data in return. Further, to exploit the reasoning potential
of the smaller LM, we propose self-reflection learning to motivate the student
to learn from self-made mistakes. The learning from self-reflection and LLM are
all tailored to the student's learning status, thanks to the seamless
integration with the multi-round learning paradigm. Comprehensive experiments
and analysis on mathematical and commonsense reasoning tasks demonstrate the
effectiveness of our method. The code will be available at
https://github.com/Raibows/Learn-to-Reason.

---

## 6. [ToolChain*: Efficient Action Space Navigation in Large Language Models
  with A* Search](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13227)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13227](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13227)

**Authors**: Yuchen Zhuang, Xiang Chen, Tong Yu, Saayan Mitra, Victor Bursztyn, Ryan A. Rossi, Somdeb Sarkhel, Chao Zhang

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated powerful decision-making and
planning capabilities in solving complicated real-world problems. LLM-based
autonomous agents can interact with diverse tools (e.g., functional APIs) and
generate solution plans that execute a series of API function calls in a
step-by-step manner. The multitude of candidate API function calls
significantly expands the action space, amplifying the critical need for
efficient action space navigation. However, existing methods either struggle
with unidirectional exploration in expansive action spaces, trapped into a
locally optimal solution, or suffer from exhaustively traversing all potential
actions, causing inefficient navigation. To address these issues, we propose
ToolChain*, an efficient tree search-based planning algorithm for LLM-based
agents. It formulates the entire action space as a decision tree, where each
node represents a possible API function call involved in a solution plan. By
incorporating the A* search algorithm with task-specific cost function design,
it efficiently prunes high-cost branches that may involve incorrect actions,
identifying the most low-cost valid path as the solution. Extensive experiments
on multiple tool-use and reasoning tasks demonstrate that ToolChain*
efficiently balances exploration and exploitation within an expansive action
space. It outperforms state-of-the-art baselines on planning and reasoning
tasks by 3.1% and 3.5% on average while requiring 7.35x and 2.31x less time,
respectively.

---

## 7. [DreamSpace: Dreaming Your Room Space with Text-Driven Panoramic Texture
  Propagation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13119)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13119](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13119)

**Authors**: Bangbang Yang, Wenqi Dong, Lin Ma, Wenbo Hu, Xiao Liu, Zhaopeng Cui, Yuewen Ma

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ybbbbt/dreamspace)

### Abstract

Diffusion-based methods have achieved prominent success in generating 2D
media. However, accomplishing similar proficiencies for scene-level mesh
texturing in 3D spatial applications, e.g., XR/VR, remains constrained,
primarily due to the intricate nature of 3D geometry and the necessity for
immersive free-viewpoint rendering. In this paper, we propose a novel indoor
scene texturing framework, which delivers text-driven texture generation with
enchanting details and authentic spatial coherence. The key insight is to first
imagine a stylized 360{\deg} panoramic texture from the central viewpoint of
the scene, and then propagate it to the rest areas with inpainting and
imitating techniques. To ensure meaningful and aligned textures to the scene,
we develop a novel coarse-to-fine panoramic texture generation approach with
dual texture alignment, which both considers the geometry and texture cues of
the captured scenes. To survive from cluttered geometries during texture
propagation, we design a separated strategy, which conducts texture inpainting
in confidential regions and then learns an implicit imitating network to
synthesize textures in occluded and tiny structural areas. Extensive
experiments and the immersive VR application on real-world indoor scenes
demonstrate the high quality of the generated textures and the engaging
experience on VR headsets. Project webpage:
https://ybbbbt.com/publication/dreamspace

---

## 8. [Teaching Language Models to Self-Improve through Interactive
  Demonstrations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13522)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13522](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13522)

**Authors**: Xiao Yu, Baolin Peng, Michel Galley, Zhou Yu

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jasonyux/tripost)

### Abstract

The self-improving ability of large language models (LLMs), enabled by
prompting them to analyze and revise their own outputs, has garnered
significant interest in recent research. However, this ability has been shown
to be absent and difficult to learn for smaller models, thus widening the
performance gap between state-of-the-art LLMs and more cost-effective and
faster ones. To reduce this gap, we introduce TriPosT, a training algorithm
that endows smaller models with such self-improvement ability, and show that
our approach can improve a LLaMA-7b's performance on math and reasoning tasks
by up to 7.13%. In contrast to prior work, we achieve this by using the smaller
model to interact with LLMs to collect feedback and improvements on its own
generations. We then replay this experience to train the small model. Our
experiments on four math and reasoning datasets show that the interactive
experience of learning from and correcting its own mistakes is crucial for
small models to improve their performance.

---

## 9. [Auto-Instruct: Automatic Instruction Generation and Ranking for
  Black-Box Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13127)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13127](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13127)

**Organization**: University of Notre Dame DM2 Lab

**Authors**: Zhihan Zhang, Shuohang Wang, Wenhao Yu, Yichong Xu, Dan Iter, Qingkai Zeng, Yang Liu, Chenguang Zhu, Meng Jiang

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) can perform a wide range of tasks by following
natural language instructions, without the necessity of task-specific
fine-tuning. Unfortunately, the performance of LLMs is greatly influenced by
the quality of these instructions, and manually writing effective instructions
for each task is a laborious and subjective process. In this paper, we
introduce Auto-Instruct, a novel method to automatically improve the quality of
instructions provided to LLMs. Our method leverages the inherent generative
ability of LLMs to produce diverse candidate instructions for a given task, and
then ranks them using a scoring model trained on a variety of 575 existing NLP
tasks. In experiments on 118 out-of-domain tasks, Auto-Instruct surpasses both
human-written instructions and existing baselines of LLM-generated
instructions. Furthermore, our method exhibits notable generalizability even
with other LLMs that are not incorporated into its training process.

---

## 10. [Tuna: Instruction Tuning using Feedback from Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13385)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13385](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13385)

**Authors**: Haoran Li, Yiran Liu, Xingxing Zhang, Wei Lu, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Instruction tuning of open-source large language models (LLMs) like LLaMA,
using direct outputs from more powerful LLMs such as Instruct-GPT and GPT-4,
has proven to be a cost-effective way to align model behaviors with human
preferences. However, the instruction-tuned model has only seen one response
per instruction, lacking the knowledge of potentially better responses. In this
paper, we propose finetuning an instruction-tuned LLM using our novel
probabilistic ranking and contextual ranking approaches to
increase the likelihood of generating better responses. Probabilistic ranking
enables the instruction-tuned model to inherit the relative rankings of
high-quality and low-quality responses from the teacher LLM. On the other hand,
learning with contextual ranking allows the model to refine its own response
distribution using the contextual understanding ability of stronger LLMs.
Furthermore, we apply probabilistic ranking and contextual ranking sequentially
to the instruction-tuned LLM. The resulting model, which we call Tuna,
consistently improves the performance on Super Natural Instructions (119 test
tasks), LMentry (25 test tasks), Vicuna QA, and can even obtain better results
than several strong reinforcement learning baselines. Our code and data are
available at  https://github.com/microsoft/LMOps.

---

## 11. [Creative Robot Tool Use with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13065)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13065](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13065)

**Authors**: Mengdi Xu, Peide Huang, Wenhao Yu, Shiqi Liu, Xilun Zhang, Yaru Niu, Tingnan Zhang, Fei Xia, Jie Tan, Ding Zhao

**Published**: 2023-10-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Tool use is a hallmark of advanced intelligence, exemplified in both animal
behavior and robotic capabilities. This paper investigates the feasibility of
imbuing robots with the ability to creatively use tools in tasks that involve
implicit physical constraints and long-term planning. Leveraging Large Language
Models (LLMs), we develop RoboTool, a system that accepts natural language
instructions and outputs executable code for controlling robots in both
simulated and real-world environments. RoboTool incorporates four pivotal
components: (i) an "Analyzer" that interprets natural language to discern key
task-related concepts, (ii) a "Planner" that generates comprehensive strategies
based on the language input and key concepts, (iii) a "Calculator" that
computes parameters for each skill, and (iv) a "Coder" that translates these
plans into executable Python code. Our results show that RoboTool can not only
comprehend explicit or implicit physical constraints and environmental factors
but also demonstrate creative tool use. Unlike traditional Task and Motion
Planning (TAMP) methods that rely on explicit optimization, our LLM-based
system offers a more flexible, efficient, and user-friendly solution for
complex robotics tasks. Through extensive experiments, we validate that
RoboTool is proficient in handling tasks that would otherwise be infeasible
without the creative use of tools, thereby expanding the capabilities of
robotic systems. Demos are available on our project page:
https://creative-robotool.github.io/.

---

## 12. [SILC: Improving Vision Language Pretraining with Self-Distillation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13355)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13355](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13355)

**Authors**: Muhammad Ferjad Naeem, Yongqin Xian, Xiaohua Zhai, Lukas Hoyer, Luc Van Gool, Federico Tombari

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Image-Text pretraining on web-scale image caption dataset has become the
default recipe for open vocabulary classification and retrieval models thanks
to the success of CLIP and its variants. Several works have also used CLIP
features for dense prediction tasks and have shown the emergence of open-set
abilities. However, the contrastive objective only focuses on image-text
alignment and does not incentivise image feature learning for dense prediction
tasks. In this work, we propose the simple addition of local-to-global
correspondence learning by self-distillation as an additional objective for
contrastive pre-training to propose SILC. We show that distilling local image
features from an exponential moving average (EMA) teacher model significantly
improves model performance on several computer vision tasks including
classification, retrieval, and especially segmentation. We further show that
SILC scales better with the same training duration compared to the baselines.
Our model SILC sets a new state of the art for zero-shot classification, few
shot classification, image and text retrieval, zero-shot segmentation, and open
vocabulary segmentation.

---

## 13. [H2O Open Ecosystem for State-of-the-art Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13012)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13012](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13012)

**Authors**: Arno Candel, Jon McKinney, Philipp Singer, Pascal Pfeiffer, Maximilian Jeblick, Chun Ming Lee, Marcos V. Conde

**Published**: 2023-10-17 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/h2oai/h2ogpt)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) represent a revolution in AI. However, they also
pose many significant risks, such as the presence of biased, private,
copyrighted or harmful text. For this reason we need open, transparent and safe
solutions. We introduce a complete open-source ecosystem for developing and
testing LLMs. The goal of this project is to boost open alternatives to
closed-source approaches. We release h2oGPT, a family of fine-tuned LLMs from 7
to 70 Billion parameters. We also introduce H2O LLM Studio, a framework and
no-code GUI designed for efficient fine-tuning, evaluation, and deployment of
LLMs using the most recent state-of-the-art techniques. Our code and models are
licensed under fully permissive Apache 2.0 licenses. We believe open-source
language models help to boost AI development and make it more accessible and
trustworthy. The demo is available at: https://gpt.h2o.ai/

---

## 14. [Towards Understanding Sycophancy in Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13548)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13548](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13548)

**Authors**: Mrinank Sharma, Meg Tong, Tomasz Korbak, David Duvenaud, Amanda Askell, Samuel R. Bowman, Newton Cheng, Esin Durmus, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Scott R. Johnston, Shauna Kravec, Timothy Maxwell, Sam McCandlish, Kamal Ndousse, Oliver Rausch, Nicholas Schiefer, Da Yan, Miranda Zhang, Ethan Perez

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/meg-tong/sycophancy-eval)

### Abstract

Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) is a popular technique for
training high-quality AI assistants. However, RLHF may also encourage model
responses that match user beliefs over truthful responses, a behavior known as
sycophancy. We investigate the prevalence of sycophancy in RLHF-trained models
and whether human preference judgements are responsible. We first demonstrate
that five state-of-the-art AI assistants consistently exhibit sycophantic
behavior across four varied free-form text-generation tasks. To understand if
human preferences drive this broadly observed behavior of RLHF models, we
analyze existing human preference data. We find that when a response matches a
user's views, it is more likely to be preferred. Moreover, both humans and
preference models (PMs) prefer convincingly-written sycophantic responses over
correct ones a negligible fraction of the time. Optimizing model outputs
against PMs also sometimes sacrifices truthfulness in favor of sycophancy.
Overall, our results indicate that sycophancy is a general behavior of RLHF
models, likely driven in part by human preference judgements favoring
sycophantic responses.

---

## 15. [ScaleLong: Towards More Stable Training of Diffusion Model via Scaling
  Network Long Skip Connection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.13545)

**ArXiv ID**: [2310.13545](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13545)

**Authors**: Zhongzhan Huang, Pan Zhou, Shuicheng Yan, Liang Lin

**Published**: 2023-10-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-10-23 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sail-sg/scalelong)

### Abstract

In diffusion models, UNet is the most popular network backbone, since its
long skip connects (LSCs) to connect distant network blocks can aggregate
long-distant information and alleviate vanishing gradient. Unfortunately, UNet
often suffers from unstable training in diffusion models which can be
alleviated by scaling its LSC coefficients smaller. However, theoretical
understandings of the instability of UNet in diffusion models and also the
performance improvement of LSC scaling remain absent yet. To solve this issue,
we theoretically show that the coefficients of LSCs in UNet have big effects on
the stableness of the forward and backward propagation and robustness of UNet.
Specifically, the hidden feature and gradient of UNet at any layer can
oscillate and their oscillation ranges are actually large which explains the
instability of UNet training. Moreover, UNet is also provably sensitive to
perturbed input, and predicts an output distant from the desired output,
yielding oscillatory loss and thus oscillatory gradient. Besides, we also
observe the theoretical benefits of the LSC coefficient scaling of UNet in the
stableness of hidden features and gradient and also robustness. Finally,
inspired by our theory, we propose an effective coefficient scaling framework
ScaleLong that scales the coefficients of LSC in UNet and better improves the
training stability of UNet. Experimental results on four famous datasets show
that our methods are superior to stabilize training and yield about 1.5x
training acceleration on different diffusion models with UNet or UViT
backbones. Code: https://github.com/sail-sg/ScaleLong

---
