# Daily Papers - 2025-03-04

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-03-04)

Total papers: 28

---

## 1. [Phi-4-Mini Technical Report: Compact yet Powerful Multimodal Language
  Models via Mixture-of-LoRAs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01743)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01743](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01743)

**Authors**: Abdelrahman Abouelenin, Atabak Ashfaq, Adam Atkinson, Hany Awadalla, Nguyen Bach, Jianmin Bao, Alon Benhaim, Martin Cai, Vishrav Chaudhary, Congcong Chen, Dong Chen, Dongdong Chen, Junkun Chen, Weizhu Chen, Yen-Chun Chen, Yi-ling Chen, Qi Dai, Xiyang Dai, Ruchao Fan, Mei Gao, Min Gao, Amit Garg, Abhishek Goswami, Junheng Hao, Amr Hendy, Yuxuan Hu, Xin Jin, Mahmoud Khademi, Dongwoo Kim, Young Jin Kim, Gina Lee, Jinyu Li, Yunsheng Li, Chen Liang, Xihui Lin, Zeqi Lin, Mengchen Liu, Yang Liu, Gilsinia Lopez, Chong Luo, Piyush Madan, Vadim Mazalov, Ali Mousavi, Anh Nguyen, Jing Pan, Daniel Perez-Becker, Jacob Platin, Thomas Portet, Kai Qiu, Bo Ren, Liliang Ren, Sambuddha Roy, Ning Shang, Yelong Shen, Saksham Singhal, Subhojit Som, Xia Song, Tetyana Sych, Praneetha Vaddamanu, Shuohang Wang, Yiming Wang, Zhenghao Wang, Haibin Wu, Haoran Xu, Weijian Xu, Yifan Yang, Ziyi Yang, Donghan Yu, Ishmam Zabir, Jianwen Zhang, Li Lyna Zhang, Yunan Zhang, Xiren Zhou

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Young Jin Kim

**Upvotes**: 89

**Links**: [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/microsoft/Phi-4-multimodal-instruct)

### Abstract

We introduce Phi-4-Mini and Phi-4-Multimodal, compact yet highly capable
language and multimodal models. Phi-4-Mini is a 3.8-billion-parameter language
model trained on high-quality web and synthetic data, significantly
outperforming recent open-source models of similar size and matching the
performance of models twice its size on math and coding tasks requiring complex
reasoning. This achievement is driven by a carefully curated synthetic data
recipe emphasizing high-quality math and coding datasets. Compared to its
predecessor, Phi-3.5-Mini, Phi-4-Mini features an expanded vocabulary size of
200K tokens to better support multilingual applications, as well as group query
attention for more efficient long-sequence generation. Phi-4-Multimodal is a
multimodal model that integrates text, vision, and speech/audio input
modalities into a single model. Its novel modality extension approach leverages
LoRA adapters and modality-specific routers to allow multiple inference modes
combining various modalities without interference. For example, it now ranks
first in the OpenASR leaderboard to date, although the LoRA component of the
speech/audio modality has just 460 million parameters. Phi-4-Multimodal
supports scenarios involving (vision + language), (vision + speech), and
(speech/audio) inputs, outperforming larger vision-language and speech-language
models on a wide range of tasks. Additionally, we experiment to further train
Phi-4-Mini to enhance its reasoning capabilities. Despite its compact
3.8-billion-parameter size, this experimental version achieves reasoning
performance on par with or surpassing significantly larger models, including
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B and DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B.

---

## 2. [Visual-RFT: Visual Reinforcement Fine-Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01785)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01785](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01785)

**Authors**: Ziyu Liu, Zeyi Sun, Yuhang Zang, Xiaoyi Dong, Yuhang Cao, Haodong Duan, Dahua Lin, Jiaqi Wang

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Zeyi Sun

**Upvotes**: 86

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Liuziyu77/Visual-RFT) | [Project Page](https://github.com/Liuziyu77/Visual-RFT)

### Abstract

Reinforcement Fine-Tuning (RFT) in Large Reasoning Models like OpenAI o1
learns from feedback on its answers, which is especially useful in applications
when fine-tuning data is scarce. Recent open-source work like DeepSeek-R1
demonstrates that reinforcement learning with verifiable reward is one key
direction in reproducing o1. While the R1-style model has demonstrated success
in language models, its application in multi-modal domains remains
under-explored. This work introduces Visual Reinforcement Fine-Tuning
(Visual-RFT), which further extends the application areas of RFT on visual
tasks. Specifically, Visual-RFT first uses Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs)
to generate multiple responses containing reasoning tokens and final answers
for each input, and then uses our proposed visual perception verifiable reward
functions to update the model via the policy optimization algorithm such as
Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO). We design different verifiable
reward functions for different perception tasks, such as the Intersection over
Union (IoU) reward for object detection. Experimental results on fine-grained
image classification, few-shot object detection, reasoning grounding, as well
as open-vocabulary object detection benchmarks show the competitive performance
and advanced generalization ability of Visual-RFT compared with Supervised
Fine-tuning (SFT). For example, Visual-RFT improves accuracy by 24.3% over
the baseline in one-shot fine-grained image classification with around 100
samples. In few-shot object detection, Visual-RFT also exceeds the baseline by
21.9 on COCO's two-shot setting and 15.4 on LVIS. Our Visual-RFT represents
a paradigm shift in fine-tuning LVLMs, offering a data-efficient, reward-driven
approach that enhances reasoning and adaptability for domain-specific tasks.

---

## 3. [Difix3D+: Improving 3D Reconstructions with Single-Step Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01774)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01774](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01774)

**Authors**: Jay Zhangjie Wu, Yuxuan Zhang, Haithem Turki, Xuanchi Ren, Jun Gao, Mike Zheng Shou, Sanja Fidler, Zan Gojcic, Huan Ling

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Jay Wu

**Upvotes**: 44

**Links**: [Project Page](https://research.nvidia.com/labs/toronto-ai/difix3d)

### Abstract

Neural Radiance Fields and 3D Gaussian Splatting have revolutionized 3D
reconstruction and novel-view synthesis task. However, achieving photorealistic
rendering from extreme novel viewpoints remains challenging, as artifacts
persist across representations. In this work, we introduce Difix3D+, a novel
pipeline designed to enhance 3D reconstruction and novel-view synthesis through
single-step diffusion models. At the core of our approach is Difix, a
single-step image diffusion model trained to enhance and remove artifacts in
rendered novel views caused by underconstrained regions of the 3D
representation. Difix serves two critical roles in our pipeline. First, it is
used during the reconstruction phase to clean up pseudo-training views that are
rendered from the reconstruction and then distilled back into 3D. This greatly
enhances underconstrained regions and improves the overall 3D representation
quality. More importantly, Difix also acts as a neural enhancer during
inference, effectively removing residual artifacts arising from imperfect 3D
supervision and the limited capacity of current reconstruction models. Difix3D+
is a general solution, a single model compatible with both NeRF and 3DGS
representations, and it achieves an average 2times improvement in FID score
over baselines while maintaining 3D consistency.

---

## 4. [Cognitive Behaviors that Enable Self-Improving Reasoners, or, Four
  Habits of Highly Effective STaRs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01307)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01307](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01307)

**Authors**: Kanishk Gandhi, Ayush Chakravarthy, Anikait Singh, Nathan Lile, Noah D. Goodman

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Kanishk Gandhi

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kanishkg/cognitive-behaviors)

### Abstract

Test-time inference has emerged as a powerful paradigm for enabling language
models to ``think'' longer and more carefully about complex challenges, much
like skilled human experts. While reinforcement learning (RL) can drive
self-improvement in language models on verifiable tasks, some models exhibit
substantial gains while others quickly plateau. For instance, we find that
Qwen-2.5-3B far exceeds Llama-3.2-3B under identical RL training for the game
of Countdown. This discrepancy raises a critical question: what intrinsic
properties enable effective self-improvement? We introduce a framework to
investigate this question by analyzing four key cognitive behaviors --
verification, backtracking, subgoal setting, and backward chaining -- that both
expert human problem solvers and successful language models employ. Our study
reveals that Qwen naturally exhibits these reasoning behaviors, whereas Llama
initially lacks them. In systematic experimentation with controlled behavioral
datasets, we find that priming Llama with examples containing these reasoning
behaviors enables substantial improvements during RL, matching or exceeding
Qwen's performance. Importantly, the presence of reasoning behaviors, rather
than correctness of answers, proves to be the critical factor -- models primed
with incorrect solutions containing proper reasoning patterns achieve
comparable performance to those trained on correct solutions. Finally,
leveraging continued pretraining with OpenWebMath data, filtered to amplify
reasoning behaviors, enables the Llama model to match Qwen's self-improvement
trajectory. Our findings establish a fundamental relationship between initial
reasoning behaviors and the capacity for improvement, explaining why some
language models effectively utilize additional computation while others
plateau.

---

## 5. [From Hours to Minutes: Lossless Acceleration of Ultra Long Sequence
  Generation up to 100K Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.18890)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.18890](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18890)

**Authors**: Tong Wu, Junzhe Shen, Zixia Jia, Yuxuan Wang, Zilong Zheng

**Published**: 2025-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Zilong Zheng

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bigai-nlco/TokenSwift)

### Abstract

Generating ultra-long sequences with large language models (LLMs) has become
increasingly crucial but remains a highly time-intensive task, particularly for
sequences up to 100K tokens. While traditional speculative decoding methods
exist, simply extending their generation limits fails to accelerate the process
and can be detrimental. Through an in-depth analysis, we identify three major
challenges hindering efficient generation: frequent model reloading, dynamic
key-value (KV) management and repetitive generation. To address these issues,
we introduce TOKENSWIFT, a novel framework designed to substantially accelerate
the generation process of ultra-long sequences while maintaining the target
model's inherent quality. Experimental results demonstrate that TOKENSWIFT
achieves over 3 times speedup across models of varying scales (1.5B, 7B, 8B,
14B) and architectures (MHA, GQA). This acceleration translates to hours of
time savings for ultra-long sequence generation, establishing TOKENSWIFT as a
scalable and effective solution at unprecedented lengths. Code can be found at
https://github.com/bigai-nlco/TokenSwift.

---

## 6. [DiffRhythm: Blazingly Fast and Embarrassingly Simple End-to-End
  Full-Length Song Generation with Latent Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01183)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01183](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01183)

**Authors**: Ziqian Ning, Huakang Chen, Yuepeng Jiang, Chunbo Hao, Guobin Ma, Shuai Wang, Jixun Yao, Lei Xie

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Apolinário from multimodal AI art

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ASLP-lab/DiffRhythm) | [Project Page](https://aslp-lab.github.io/DiffRhythm.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in music generation have garnered significant attention,
yet existing approaches face critical limitations. Some current generative
models can only synthesize either the vocal track or the accompaniment track.
While some models can generate combined vocal and accompaniment, they typically
rely on meticulously designed multi-stage cascading architectures and intricate
data pipelines, hindering scalability. Additionally, most systems are
restricted to generating short musical segments rather than full-length songs.
Furthermore, widely used language model-based methods suffer from slow
inference speeds. To address these challenges, we propose DiffRhythm, the first
latent diffusion-based song generation model capable of synthesizing complete
songs with both vocal and accompaniment for durations of up to 4m45s in only
ten seconds, maintaining high musicality and intelligibility. Despite its
remarkable capabilities, DiffRhythm is designed to be simple and elegant: it
eliminates the need for complex data preparation, employs a straightforward
model structure, and requires only lyrics and a style prompt during inference.
Additionally, its non-autoregressive structure ensures fast inference speeds.
This simplicity guarantees the scalability of DiffRhythm. Moreover, we release
the complete training code along with the pre-trained model on large-scale data
to promote reproducibility and further research.

---

## 7. [OneRec: Unifying Retrieve and Rank with Generative Recommender and
  Iterative Preference Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.18965)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.18965](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18965)

**Authors**: Jiaxin Deng, Shiyao Wang, Kuo Cai, Lejian Ren, Qigen Hu, Weifeng Ding, Qiang Luo, Guorui Zhou

**Published**: 2025-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Xiaohuan Zhou

**Upvotes**: 28

### Abstract

Recently, generative retrieval-based recommendation systems have emerged as a
promising paradigm. However, most modern recommender systems adopt a
retrieve-and-rank strategy, where the generative model functions only as a
selector during the retrieval stage. In this paper, we propose OneRec, which
replaces the cascaded learning framework with a unified generative model. To
the best of our knowledge, this is the first end-to-end generative model that
significantly surpasses current complex and well-designed recommender systems
in real-world scenarios. Specifically, OneRec includes: 1) an encoder-decoder
structure, which encodes the user's historical behavior sequences and gradually
decodes the videos that the user may be interested in. We adopt sparse
Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) to scale model capacity without proportionally
increasing computational FLOPs. 2) a session-wise generation approach. In
contrast to traditional next-item prediction, we propose a session-wise
generation, which is more elegant and contextually coherent than point-by-point
generation that relies on hand-crafted rules to properly combine the generated
results. 3) an Iterative Preference Alignment module combined with Direct
Preference Optimization (DPO) to enhance the quality of the generated results.
Unlike DPO in NLP, a recommendation system typically has only one opportunity
to display results for each user's browsing request, making it impossible to
obtain positive and negative samples simultaneously. To address this
limitation, We design a reward model to simulate user generation and customize
the sampling strategy. Extensive experiments have demonstrated that a limited
number of DPO samples can align user interest preferences and significantly
improve the quality of generated results. We deployed OneRec in the main scene
of Kuaishou, achieving a 1.6\% increase in watch-time, which is a substantial
improvement.

---

## 8. [When an LLM is apprehensive about its answers -- and when its
  uncertainty is justified](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01688)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01688](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01688)

**Authors**: Petr Sychev, Andrey Goncharov, Daniil Vyazhev, Edvard Khalafyan, Alexey Zaytsev

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Andrey Goncharov

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/LabARSS/question-complextiy-estimation)

### Abstract

Uncertainty estimation is crucial for evaluating Large Language Models
(LLMs), particularly in high-stakes domains where incorrect answers result in
significant consequences. Numerous approaches consider this problem, while
focusing on a specific type of uncertainty, ignoring others. We investigate
what estimates, specifically token-wise entropy and model-as-judge (MASJ),
would work for multiple-choice question-answering tasks for different question
topics. Our experiments consider three LLMs: Phi-4, Mistral, and Qwen of
different sizes from 1.5B to 72B and 14 topics. While MASJ performs similarly
to a random error predictor, the response entropy predicts model error in
knowledge-dependent domains and serves as an effective indicator of question
difficulty: for biology ROC AUC is 0.73. This correlation vanishes for the
reasoning-dependent domain: for math questions ROC-AUC is 0.55. More
principally, we found out that the entropy measure required a reasoning amount.
Thus, data-uncertainty related entropy should be integrated within uncertainty
estimates frameworks, while MASJ requires refinement. Moreover, existing
MMLU-Pro samples are biased, and should balance required amount of reasoning
for different subdomains to provide a more fair assessment of LLMs performance.

---

## 9. [Liger: Linearizing Large Language Models to Gated Recurrent Structures](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01496)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01496](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01496)

**Authors**: Disen Lan, Weigao Sun, Jiaxi Hu, Jusen Du, Yu Cheng

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Weigao Sun

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opensparsellms/linearization)

### Abstract

Transformers with linear recurrent modeling offer linear-time training and
constant-memory inference. Despite their demonstrated efficiency and
performance, pretraining such non-standard architectures from scratch remains
costly and risky. The linearization of large language models (LLMs) transforms
pretrained standard models into linear recurrent structures, enabling more
efficient deployment. However, current linearization methods typically
introduce additional feature map modules that require extensive fine-tuning and
overlook the gating mechanisms used in state-of-the-art linear recurrent
models. To address these issues, this paper presents Liger, short for
Linearizing LLMs to gated recurrent structures. Liger is a novel approach for
converting pretrained LLMs into gated linear recurrent models without adding
extra parameters. It repurposes the pretrained key matrix weights to construct
diverse gating mechanisms, facilitating the formation of various gated
recurrent structures while avoiding the need to train additional components
from scratch. Using lightweight fine-tuning with Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA),
Liger restores the performance of the linearized gated recurrent models to
match that of the original LLMs. Additionally, we introduce Liger Attention, an
intra-layer hybrid attention mechanism, which significantly recovers 93\% of
the Transformer-based LLM at 0.02\% pre-training tokens during the
linearization process, achieving competitive results across multiple
benchmarks, as validated on models ranging from 1B to 8B parameters. Code is
available at https://github.com/OpenSparseLLMs/Linearization.

---

## 10. [Kiss3DGen: Repurposing Image Diffusion Models for 3D Asset Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01370)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01370](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01370)

**Authors**: Jiantao Lin, Xin Yang, Meixi Chen, Yingjie Xu, Dongyu Yan, Leyi Wu, Xinli Xu, Lie XU, Shunsi Zhang, Ying-Cong Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by JIANTAO LIN

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/EnVision-Research/Kiss3DGen) | [Project Page](https://ltt-o.github.io/Kiss3dgen.github.io/)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have achieved great success in generating 2D images.
However, the quality and generalizability of 3D content generation remain
limited. State-of-the-art methods often require large-scale 3D assets for
training, which are challenging to collect. In this work, we introduce
Kiss3DGen (Keep It Simple and Straightforward in 3D Generation), an efficient
framework for generating, editing, and enhancing 3D objects by repurposing a
well-trained 2D image diffusion model for 3D generation. Specifically, we
fine-tune a diffusion model to generate ''3D Bundle Image'', a tiled
representation composed of multi-view images and their corresponding normal
maps. The normal maps are then used to reconstruct a 3D mesh, and the
multi-view images provide texture mapping, resulting in a complete 3D model.
This simple method effectively transforms the 3D generation problem into a 2D
image generation task, maximizing the utilization of knowledge in pretrained
diffusion models. Furthermore, we demonstrate that our Kiss3DGen model is
compatible with various diffusion model techniques, enabling advanced features
such as 3D editing, mesh and texture enhancement, etc. Through extensive
experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, showcasing its
ability to produce high-quality 3D models efficiently.

---

## 11. [Efficient Test-Time Scaling via Self-Calibration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00031)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00031](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00031)

**Authors**: Chengsong Huang, Langlin Huang, Jixuan Leng, Jiacheng Liu, Jiaxin Huang

**Published**: 2025-02-25 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Chengsong Huang

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Chengsong-Huang/Self-Calibration)

### Abstract

Increasing test-time computation is a straightforward approach to enhancing
the quality of responses in Large Language Models (LLMs). While Best-of-N
sampling and Self-Consistency with majority voting are simple and effective,
they require a fixed number of sampling responses for each query, regardless of
its complexity. This could result in wasted computation for simpler questions
and insufficient exploration for more challenging ones. In this work, we argue
that model confidence of responses can be used for improving the efficiency of
test-time scaling. Unfortunately, LLMs are known to be overconfident and
provide unreliable confidence estimation. To address this limitation, we
introduce Self-Calibration by distilling Self-Consistency-derived confidence
into the model itself. This enables reliable confidence estimation at test time
with one forward pass. We then design confidence-based efficient test-time
scaling methods to handle queries of various difficulty, such as Early-Stopping
for Best-of-N and Self-Consistency with calibrated confidence. Experiments on
three LLMs across six datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Specifically, applying confidence-based Early Stopping to Best-of-N improves
MathQA accuracy from 81.0 to 83.6 with a sample budget of 16 responses,
indicating the efficacy of confidence-based sampling strategy at inference
time.

---

## 12. [Large-Scale Data Selection for Instruction Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01807)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01807](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01807)

**Authors**: Hamish Ivison, Muru Zhang, Faeze Brahman, Pang Wei Koh, Pradeep Dasigi

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Hamish Ivison

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hamishivi/automated-instruction-selection) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/collections/hamishivi/large-scale-data-selection-for-instruction-tuning-677d7e8ca0295426c1915930)

### Abstract

Selecting high-quality training data from a larger pool is a crucial step
when instruction-tuning language models, as carefully curated datasets often
produce models that outperform those trained on much larger, noisier datasets.
Automated data selection approaches for instruction-tuning are typically tested
by selecting small datasets (roughly 10k samples) from small pools (100-200k
samples). However, popular deployed instruction-tuned models often train on
hundreds of thousands to millions of samples, subsampled from even larger data
pools. We present a systematic study of how well data selection methods scale
to these settings, selecting up to 2.5M samples from pools of up to 5.8M
samples and evaluating across 7 diverse tasks. We show that many recently
proposed methods fall short of random selection in this setting (while using
more compute), and even decline in performance when given access to larger
pools of data to select over. However, we find that a variant of
representation-based data selection (RDS+), which uses weighted mean pooling of
pretrained LM hidden states, consistently outperforms more complex methods
across all settings tested -- all whilst being more compute-efficient. Our
findings highlight that the scaling properties of proposed automated selection
methods should be more closely examined. We release our code, data, and models
at https://github.com/hamishivi/automated-instruction-selection.

---

## 13. [DuoDecoding: Hardware-aware Heterogeneous Speculative Decoding with
  Dynamic Multi-Sequence Drafting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00784)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00784](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00784)

**Authors**: Kai Lv, Honglin Guo, Qipeng Guo, Xipeng Qiu

**Published**: 2025-03-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Kai

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/KaiLv69/DuoDecoding)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) exhibit exceptional performance across a wide
range of tasks; however, their token-by-token autoregressive generation process
significantly hinders inference speed. Speculative decoding presents a
promising draft-then-verify framework that reduces generation latency while
maintaining output distribution fidelity. Nevertheless, the draft model
introduces additional computational overhead, becoming a performance bottleneck
and increasing the time to first token (TTFT). Previous approaches to mitigate
draft model overhead have primarily relied on heuristics and generally failed
to match the quality of the draft language models. To address these challenges,
we propose DuoDecoding, a novel approach that strategically deploys the draft
and target models on the CPU and GPU respectively, enabling parallel decoding
while preserving draft quality. Our method incorporates a hardware-aware
optimal draft budget to minimize idle times and employs dynamic multi-sequence
drafting to enhance draft quality. Extensive experiments across seven tasks
show that DuoDecoding achieves up to 2.61x speedup in generation latency, while
reducing TTFT to 83% of that in conventional speculative decoding. The Code is
available at https://github.com/KaiLv69/DuoDecoding.

---

## 14. [Speculative Ad-hoc Querying](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00714)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00714](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00714)

**Authors**: Haoyu Li, Srikanth Kandula, Maria Angels de Luis Balaguer, Aditya Akella, Venkat Arun

**Published**: 2025-03-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Haoyu Li

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lihy0529/SpeQL) | [Project Page](https://github.com/lihy0529/SpeQL)

### Abstract

Analyzing large datasets requires responsive query execution, but executing
SQL queries on massive datasets can be slow. This paper explores whether query
execution can begin even before the user has finished typing, allowing results
to appear almost instantly. We propose SpeQL, a system that leverages Large
Language Models (LLMs) to predict likely queries based on the database schema,
the user's past queries, and their incomplete query. Since exact query
prediction is infeasible, SpeQL speculates on partial queries in two ways: 1)
it predicts the query structure to compile and plan queries in advance, and 2)
it precomputes smaller temporary tables that are much smaller than the original
database, but are still predicted to contain all information necessary to
answer the user's final query. Additionally, SpeQL continuously displays
results for speculated queries and subqueries in real time, aiding exploratory
analysis. A utility/user study showed that SpeQL improved task completion time,
and participants reported that its speculative display of results helped them
discover patterns in the data more quickly. In the study, SpeQL improves user's
query latency by up to 289times and kept the overhead reasonable, at 4$
per hour.

---

## 15. [Qilin: A Multimodal Information Retrieval Dataset with APP-level User
  Sessions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00501)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00501](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00501)

**Authors**: Jia Chen, Qian Dong, Haitao Li, Xiaohui He, Yan Gao, Shaosheng Cao, Yi Wu, Ping Yang, Chen Xu, Yao Hu, Qingyao Ai, Yiqun Liu

**Published**: 2025-03-01 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Qian Dong

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/RED-Search/Qilin) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/datasets/THUIR/Qilin)

### Abstract

User-generated content (UGC) communities, especially those featuring
multimodal content, improve user experiences by integrating visual and textual
information into results (or items). The challenge of improving user
experiences in complex systems with search and recommendation (S\&R) services
has drawn significant attention from both academia and industry these years.
However, the lack of high-quality datasets has limited the research progress on
multimodal S\&R. To address the growing need for developing better S\&R
services, we present a novel multimodal information retrieval dataset in this
paper, namely Qilin. The dataset is collected from Xiaohongshu, a popular
social platform with over 300 million monthly active users and an average
search penetration rate of over 70\%. In contrast to existing datasets,
Qilin offers a comprehensive collection of user sessions with
heterogeneous results like image-text notes, video notes, commercial notes, and
direct answers, facilitating the development of advanced multimodal neural
retrieval models across diverse task settings. To better model user
satisfaction and support the analysis of heterogeneous user behaviors, we also
collect extensive APP-level contextual signals and genuine user feedback.
Notably, Qilin contains user-favored answers and their referred results for
search requests triggering the Deep Query Answering (DQA) module. This allows
not only the training \& evaluation of a Retrieval-augmented Generation (RAG)
pipeline, but also the exploration of how such a module would affect users'
search behavior. Through comprehensive analysis and experiments, we provide
interesting findings and insights for further improving S\&R systems. We hope
that Qilin will significantly contribute to the advancement of
multimodal content platforms with S\&R services in the future.

---

## 16. [SampleMix: A Sample-wise Pre-training Data Mixing Strategey by
  Coordinating Data Quality and Diversity](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01506)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01506](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01506)

**Authors**: Xiangyu Xi, Deyang Kong, Jian Yang, Jiawei Yang, Zhengyu Chen, Wei Wang, Jingang Wang, Xunliang Cai, Shikun Zhang, Wei Ye

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by DeyangKong

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Existing pretraining data mixing methods for large language models (LLMs)
typically follow a domain-wise methodology, a top-down process that first
determines domain weights and then performs uniform data sampling across each
domain. However, these approaches neglect significant inter-domain overlaps and
commonalities, failing to control the global diversity of the constructed
training dataset. Further, uniform sampling within domains ignores fine-grained
sample-specific features, potentially leading to suboptimal data distribution.
To address these shortcomings, we propose a novel sample-wise data mixture
approach based on a bottom-up paradigm. This method performs global
cross-domain sampling by systematically evaluating the quality and diversity of
each sample, thereby dynamically determining the optimal domain distribution.
Comprehensive experiments across multiple downstream tasks and perplexity
assessments demonstrate that SampleMix surpasses existing domain-based methods.
Meanwhile, SampleMix requires 1.4x to 2.1x training steps to achieves the
baselines' performance, highlighting the substantial potential of SampleMix to
optimize pre-training data.

---

## 17. [VideoUFO: A Million-Scale User-Focused Dataset for Text-to-Video
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01739)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01739](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01739)

**Authors**: Wenhao Wang, Yi Yang

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Wenhao Wang

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wangwenhao0716/benchufo)

### Abstract

Text-to-video generative models convert textual prompts into dynamic visual
content, offering wide-ranging applications in film production, gaming, and
education. However, their real-world performance often falls short of user
expectations. One key reason is that these models have not been trained on
videos related to some topics users want to create. In this paper, we propose
VideoUFO, the first Video dataset specifically curated to align with Users'
FOcus in real-world scenarios. Beyond this, our VideoUFO also features: (1)
minimal (0.29%) overlap with existing video datasets, and (2) videos
searched exclusively via YouTube's official API under the Creative Commons
license. These two attributes provide future researchers with greater freedom
to broaden their training sources. The VideoUFO comprises over 1.09 million
video clips, each paired with both a brief and a detailed caption
(description). Specifically, through clustering, we first identify 1,291
user-focused topics from the million-scale real text-to-video prompt dataset,
VidProM. Then, we use these topics to retrieve videos from YouTube, split the
retrieved videos into clips, and generate both brief and detailed captions for
each clip. After verifying the clips with specified topics, we are left with
about 1.09 million video clips. Our experiments reveal that (1) current 16
text-to-video models do not achieve consistent performance across all
user-focused topics; and (2) a simple model trained on VideoUFO outperforms
others on worst-performing topics. The dataset is publicly available at
https://huggingface.co/datasets/WenhaoWang/VideoUFO under the CC BY 4.0
License.

---

## 18. [CodeArena: A Collective Evaluation Platform for LLM Code Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01295)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01295](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01295)

**Authors**: Mingzhe Du, Anh Tuan Luu, Bin Ji, Xiaobao Wu, Dong Huang, Terry Yue Zhuo, Qian Liu, See-Kiong Ng

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Mingzhe Du

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have reshaped code generation by synergizing
their exceptional comprehension of natural language and programming syntax,
thereby substantially boosting developer productivity. These advancements have
prompted numerous efforts to quantitatively evaluate their coding capabilities.
However, persistent challenges, such as benchmark leakage, data dissipation,
and limited system accessibility, continue to impede a timely and accurate
assessment. To address these limitations, we introduce CodeArena, an online
evaluation framework tailored for LLM code generation. The key innovation is a
collective evaluation mechanism, which dynamically recalibrates individual
model scores based on the holistic performance of all participating models,
mitigating score biases caused by widespread benchmark leakage. In addition,
CodeArena ensures open access to all submitted solutions and test cases and
provides automation-friendly APIs to streamline the code evaluation workflow.
Our main contributions are: (1) a collective evaluation system for unbiased
assessment, (2) a public repository of solutions and test cases, and (3)
automation-ready APIs for seamless integration.

---

## 19. [PodAgent: A Comprehensive Framework for Podcast Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00455)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00455](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00455)

**Authors**: Yujia Xiao, Lei He, Haohan Guo, Fenglong Xie, Tan Lee

**Published**: 2025-03-01 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Yujia Xiao

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yujxx/PodAgent) | [Project Page](https://podcast-agent.github.io/demo/)

### Abstract

Existing Existing automatic audio generation methods struggle to generate
podcast-like audio programs effectively. The key challenges lie in in-depth
content generation, appropriate and expressive voice production. This paper
proposed PodAgent, a comprehensive framework for creating audio programs.
PodAgent 1) generates informative topic-discussion content by designing a
Host-Guest-Writer multi-agent collaboration system, 2) builds a voice pool for
suitable voice-role matching and 3) utilizes LLM-enhanced speech synthesis
method to generate expressive conversational speech. Given the absence of
standardized evaluation criteria for podcast-like audio generation, we
developed comprehensive assessment guidelines to effectively evaluate the
model's performance. Experimental results demonstrate PodAgent's effectiveness,
significantly surpassing direct GPT-4 generation in topic-discussion dialogue
content, achieving an 87.4% voice-matching accuracy, and producing more
expressive speech through LLM-guided synthesis. Demo page:
https://podcast-agent.github.io/demo/. Source code:
https://github.com/yujxx/PodAgent.

---

## 20. [Word Form Matters: LLMs' Semantic Reconstruction under Typoglycemia](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01714)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01714](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01714)

**Authors**: Chenxi Wang, Tianle Gu, Zhongyu Wei, Lang Gao, Zirui Song, Xiuying Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Zirui Song

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Aurora-cx/TypoLLM)

### Abstract

Human readers can efficiently comprehend scrambled words, a phenomenon known
as Typoglycemia, primarily by relying on word form; if word form alone is
insufficient, they further utilize contextual cues for interpretation. While
advanced large language models (LLMs) exhibit similar abilities, the underlying
mechanisms remain unclear. To investigate this, we conduct controlled
experiments to analyze the roles of word form and contextual information in
semantic reconstruction and examine LLM attention patterns. Specifically, we
first propose SemRecScore, a reliable metric to quantify the degree of semantic
reconstruction, and validate its effectiveness. Using this metric, we study how
word form and contextual information influence LLMs' semantic reconstruction
ability, identifying word form as the core factor in this process. Furthermore,
we analyze how LLMs utilize word form and find that they rely on specialized
attention heads to extract and process word form information, with this
mechanism remaining stable across varying levels of word scrambling. This
distinction between LLMs' fixed attention patterns primarily focused on word
form and human readers' adaptive strategy in balancing word form and contextual
information provides insights into enhancing LLM performance by incorporating
human-like, context-aware mechanisms.

---

## 21. [Direct Discriminative Optimization: Your Likelihood-Based Visual
  Generative Model is Secretly a GAN Discriminator](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01103)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01103](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01103)

**Authors**: Kaiwen Zheng, Yongxin Chen, Huayu Chen, Guande He, Ming-Yu Liu, Jun Zhu, Qinsheng Zhang

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Kaiwen Zheng

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [Project Page](https://research.nvidia.com/labs/dir/ddo/)

### Abstract

While likelihood-based generative models, particularly diffusion and
autoregressive models, have achieved remarkable fidelity in visual generation,
the maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) objective inherently suffers from a
mode-covering tendency that limits the generation quality under limited model
capacity. In this work, we propose Direct Discriminative Optimization (DDO) as
a unified framework that bridges likelihood-based generative training and the
GAN objective to bypass this fundamental constraint. Our key insight is to
parameterize a discriminator implicitly using the likelihood ratio between a
learnable target model and a fixed reference model, drawing parallels with the
philosophy of Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). Unlike GANs, this
parameterization eliminates the need for joint training of generator and
discriminator networks, allowing for direct, efficient, and effective
finetuning of a well-trained model to its full potential beyond the limits of
MLE. DDO can be performed iteratively in a self-play manner for progressive
model refinement, with each round requiring less than 1% of pretraining epochs.
Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of DDO by significantly advancing
the previous SOTA diffusion model EDM, reducing FID scores from 1.79/1.58 to
new records of 1.30/0.97 on CIFAR-10/ImageNet-64 datasets, and by consistently
improving both guidance-free and CFG-enhanced FIDs of visual autoregressive
models on ImageNet 256times256.

---

## 22. [AI-Invented Tonal Languages: Preventing a Machine Lingua Franca Beyond
  Human Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01063)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01063](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01063)

**Authors**: David Noever

**Published**: 2025-03-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by David Noever

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

This paper investigates the potential for large language models (LLMs) to
develop private tonal languages for machine-to-machine (M2M) communication.
Inspired by cryptophasia in human twins (affecting up to 50% of twin births)
and natural tonal languages like Mandarin and Vietnamese, we implement a
precise character-to-frequency mapping system that encodes the full ASCII
character set (32-126) using musical semitones. Each character is assigned a
unique frequency, creating a logarithmic progression beginning with space (220
Hz) and ending with tilde (50,175.42 Hz). This spans approximately 7.9 octaves,
with higher characters deliberately mapped to ultrasonic frequencies beyond
human perception (>20 kHz). Our implemented software prototype demonstrates
this encoding through visualization, auditory playback, and ABC musical
notation, allowing for analysis of information density and transmission speed.
Testing reveals that tonal encoding can achieve information rates exceeding
human speech while operating partially outside human perceptual boundaries.
This work responds directly to concerns about AI systems catastrophically
developing private languages within the next five years, providing a concrete
prototype software example of how such communication might function and the
technical foundation required for its emergence, detection, and governance.

---

## 23. [General Reasoning Requires Learning to Reason from the Get-go](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.19402)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.19402](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.19402)

**Authors**: Seungwook Han, Jyothish Pari, Samuel J. Gershman, Pulkit Agrawal

**Published**: 2025-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Seungwook Han

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive real-world utility,
exemplifying artificial useful intelligence (AUI). However, their ability to
reason adaptively and robustly -- the hallmarks of artificial general
intelligence (AGI) -- remains fragile. While LLMs seemingly succeed in
commonsense reasoning, programming, and mathematics, they struggle to
generalize algorithmic understanding across novel contexts. Our experiments
with algorithmic tasks in esoteric programming languages reveal that LLM's
reasoning overfits to the training data and is limited in its transferability.
We hypothesize that the core issue underlying such limited transferability is
the coupling of reasoning and knowledge in LLMs.
  To transition from AUI to AGI, we propose disentangling knowledge and
reasoning through three key directions: (1) pretaining to reason using RL from
scratch as an alternative to the widely used next-token prediction pretraining,
(2) using a curriculum of synthetic tasks to ease the learning of a
reasoning prior for RL that can then be transferred to natural
language tasks, and (3) learning more generalizable reasoning functions using a
small context window to reduce exploiting spurious correlations between tokens.
Such a reasoning system coupled with a trained retrieval system and a large
external memory bank as a knowledge store can overcome several limitations of
existing architectures at learning to reason in novel scenarios.

---

## 24. [Teaching Metric Distance to Autoregressive Multimodal Foundational
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02379)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02379](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02379)

**Authors**: Jiwan Chung, Saejin Kim, Yongrae Jo, Jaewoo Park, Dongjun Min, Youngjae Yu

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Jiwan Chung

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

As large language models expand beyond natural language to domains such as
mathematics, multimodal understanding, and embodied agents, tokens increasingly
reflect metric relationships rather than purely linguistic meaning. We
introduce DIST2Loss, a distance-aware framework designed to train
autoregressive discrete models by leveraging predefined distance relationships
among output tokens. At its core, DIST2Loss transforms continuous exponential
family distributions derived from inherent distance metrics into discrete,
categorical optimization targets compatible with the models' architectures.
This approach enables the models to learn and preserve meaningful distance
relationships during token generation while maintaining compatibility with
existing architectures. Empirical evaluations show consistent performance gains
in diverse multimodal applications, including visual grounding, robotic
manipulation, generative reward modeling, and image generation using
vector-quantized features. These improvements are pronounced in cases of
limited training data, highlighting DIST2Loss's effectiveness in
resource-constrained settings.

---

## 25. [Unposed Sparse Views Room Layout Reconstruction in the Age of Pretrain
  Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.16779)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.16779](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16779)

**Authors**: Yaxuan Huang, Xili Dai, Jianan Wang, Xianbiao Qi, Yixing Yuan, Xiangyu Yue

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by huang

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/justacar/Plane-DUSt3R)

### Abstract

Room layout estimation from multiple-perspective images is poorly
investigated due to the complexities that emerge from multi-view geometry,
which requires muti-step solutions such as camera intrinsic and extrinsic
estimation, image matching, and triangulation. However, in 3D reconstruction,
the advancement of recent 3D foundation models such as DUSt3R has shifted the
paradigm from the traditional multi-step structure-from-motion process to an
end-to-end single-step approach. To this end, we introduce Plane-DUSt3R, a
novel method for multi-view room layout estimation leveraging the 3D foundation
model DUSt3R. Plane-DUSt3R incorporates the DUSt3R framework and fine-tunes on
a room layout dataset (Structure3D) with a modified objective to estimate
structural planes. By generating uniform and parsimonious results, Plane-DUSt3R
enables room layout estimation with only a single post-processing step and 2D
detection results. Unlike previous methods that rely on single-perspective or
panorama image, Plane-DUSt3R extends the setting to handle multiple-perspective
images. Moreover, it offers a streamlined, end-to-end solution that simplifies
the process and reduces error accumulation. Experimental results demonstrate
that Plane-DUSt3R not only outperforms state-of-the-art methods on the
synthetic dataset but also proves robust and effective on in the wild data with
different image styles such as cartoon.Our code is available at:
https://github.com/justacar/Plane-DUSt3R

---

## 26. [CLEA: Closed-Loop Embodied Agent for Enhancing Task Execution in Dynamic
  Environments](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00729)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00729](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00729)

**Authors**: Mingcong Lei, Ge Wang, Yiming Zhao, Zhixin Mai, Qing Zhao, Yao Guo, Zhen Li, Shuguang Cui, Yatong Han, Jinke Ren

**Published**: 2025-03-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Lei Mingcong

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SP4595/CLEA-Closed-Loop-Embodied-Agent) | [Project Page](https://sp4595.github.io/CLEA/)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit remarkable capabilities in the
hierarchical decomposition of complex tasks through semantic reasoning.
However, their application in embodied systems faces challenges in ensuring
reliable execution of subtask sequences and achieving one-shot success in
long-term task completion. To address these limitations in dynamic
environments, we propose Closed-Loop Embodied Agent (CLEA) -- a novel
architecture incorporating four specialized open-source LLMs with functional
decoupling for closed-loop task management. The framework features two core
innovations: (1) Interactive task planner that dynamically generates executable
subtasks based on the environmental memory, and (2) Multimodal execution critic
employing an evaluation framework to conduct a probabilistic assessment of
action feasibility, triggering hierarchical re-planning mechanisms when
environmental perturbations exceed preset thresholds. To validate CLEA's
effectiveness, we conduct experiments in a real environment with manipulable
objects, using two heterogeneous robots for object search, manipulation, and
search-manipulation integration tasks. Across 12 task trials, CLEA outperforms
the baseline model, achieving a 67.3% improvement in success rate and a 52.8%
increase in task completion rate. These results demonstrate that CLEA
significantly enhances the robustness of task planning and execution in dynamic
environments.

---

## 27. [Why Are Web AI Agents More Vulnerable Than Standalone LLMs? A Security
  Analysis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.20383)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.20383](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.20383)

**Authors**: Jeffrey Yang Fan Chiang, Seungjae Lee, Jia-Bin Huang, Furong Huang, Yizheng Chen

**Published**: 2025-02-27 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Jeffrey Yang Fan Chiang

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [Project Page](https://vulnerable-ai-agents.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in Web AI agents have demonstrated remarkable
capabilities in addressing complex web navigation tasks. However, emerging
research shows that these agents exhibit greater vulnerability compared to
standalone Large Language Models (LLMs), despite both being built upon the same
safety-aligned models. This discrepancy is particularly concerning given the
greater flexibility of Web AI Agent compared to standalone LLMs, which may
expose them to a wider range of adversarial user inputs. To build a scaffold
that addresses these concerns, this study investigates the underlying factors
that contribute to the increased vulnerability of Web AI agents. Notably, this
disparity stems from the multifaceted differences between Web AI agents and
standalone LLMs, as well as the complex signals - nuances that simple
evaluation metrics, such as success rate, often fail to capture. To tackle
these challenges, we propose a component-level analysis and a more granular,
systematic evaluation framework. Through this fine-grained investigation, we
identify three critical factors that amplify the vulnerability of Web AI
agents; (1) embedding user goals into the system prompt, (2) multi-step action
generation, and (3) observational capabilities. Our findings highlights the
pressing need to enhance security and robustness in AI agent design and provide
actionable insights for targeted defense strategies.

---

## 28. [RSQ: Learning from Important Tokens Leads to Better Quantized LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01820)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01820](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01820)

**Authors**: Yi-Lin Sung, Prateek Yadav, Jialu Li, Jaehong Yoon, Mohit Bansal

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-04 by Jaehong Yoon

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ylsung/rsq)

### Abstract

Layer-wise quantization is a key technique for efficiently compressing large
models without expensive retraining. Previous methods typically quantize the
weights of each layer by "uniformly" optimizing the layer reconstruction loss
across all output tokens. However, in this paper, we demonstrate that
better-quantized models can be obtained by prioritizing learning from important
tokens (e.g. which have large attention scores). Building on this finding, we
propose RSQ (Rotate, Scale, then Quantize), which (1) applies rotations
(orthogonal transformation) to the model to mitigate outliers (those with
exceptionally large magnitude), (2) scales the token feature based on its
importance, and (3) quantizes the model using the GPTQ framework with the
second-order statistics computed by scaled tokens. To compute token importance,
we explore both heuristic and dynamic strategies. Based on a thorough analysis
of all approaches, we adopt attention concentration, which uses attention
scores of each token as its importance, as the best approach. We demonstrate
that RSQ consistently outperforms baseline methods across multiple downstream
tasks and three model families: LLaMA3, Mistral, and Qwen2.5. Additionally,
models quantized with RSQ achieve superior performance on long-context tasks,
further highlighting its effectiveness. Lastly, RSQ demonstrates
generalizability across various setups, including different model sizes,
calibration datasets, bit precisions, and quantization methods.

---
