# Daily Papers - 2025-03-05

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-03-05)

Total papers: 26

---

## 1. [MultiAgentBench: Evaluating the Collaboration and Competition of LLM
  agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01935)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01935](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01935)

**Authors**: Kunlun Zhu, Hongyi Du, Zhaochen Hong, Xiaocheng Yang, Shuyi Guo, Zhe Wang, Zhenhailong Wang, Cheng Qian, Xiangru Tang, Heng Ji, Jiaxuan You

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by KunlunZhu

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MultiagentBench/MARBLE)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities as autonomous
agents, yet existing benchmarks either focus on single-agent tasks or are
confined to narrow domains, failing to capture the dynamics of multi-agent
coordination and competition. In this paper, we introduce MultiAgentBench, a
comprehensive benchmark designed to evaluate LLM-based multi-agent systems
across diverse, interactive scenarios. Our framework measures not only task
completion but also the quality of collaboration and competition using novel,
milestone-based key performance indicators. Moreover, we evaluate various
coordination protocols (including star, chain, tree, and graph topologies) and
innovative strategies such as group discussion and cognitive planning. Notably,
gpt-4o-mini reaches the average highest task score, graph structure performs
the best among coordination protocols in the research scenario, and cognitive
planning improves milestone achievement rates by 3%. Code and datasets are
public available at https://github.com/MultiagentBench/MARBLE.

---

## 2. [MPO: Boosting LLM Agents with Meta Plan Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02682)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02682](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02682)

**Authors**: Weimin Xiong, Yifan Song, Qingxiu Dong, Bingchan Zhao, Feifan Song, Xun Wang, Sujian Li

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by xwm

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/WeiminXiong/MPO)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have enabled LLM-based
agents to successfully tackle interactive planning tasks. However, despite
their successes, existing approaches often suffer from planning hallucinations
and require retraining for each new agent. To address these challenges, we
propose the Meta Plan Optimization (MPO) framework, which enhances agent
planning capabilities by directly incorporating explicit guidance. Unlike
previous methods that rely on complex knowledge, which either require
significant human effort or lack quality assurance, MPO leverages high-level
general guidance through meta plans to assist agent planning and enables
continuous optimization of the meta plans based on feedback from the agent's
task execution. Our experiments conducted on two representative tasks
demonstrate that MPO significantly outperforms existing baselines. Moreover,
our analysis indicates that MPO provides a plug-and-play solution that enhances
both task completion efficiency and generalization capabilities in previous
unseen scenarios.

---

## 3. [SemViQA: A Semantic Question Answering System for Vietnamese Information
  Fact-Checking](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00955)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00955](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00955)

**Authors**: Nam V. Nguyen, Dien X. Tran, Thanh T. Tran, Anh T. Hoang, Tai V. Duong, Di T. Le, Phuc-Lu Le

**Published**: 2025-03-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Nguyen Van Nam

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/DAVID-NGUYEN-S16/SemViQA)

### Abstract

The rise of misinformation, exacerbated by Large Language Models (LLMs) like
GPT and Gemini, demands robust fact-checking solutions, especially for
low-resource languages like Vietnamese. Existing methods struggle with semantic
ambiguity, homonyms, and complex linguistic structures, often trading accuracy
for efficiency. We introduce SemViQA, a novel Vietnamese fact-checking
framework integrating Semantic-based Evidence Retrieval (SER) and Two-step
Verdict Classification (TVC). Our approach balances precision and speed,
achieving state-of-the-art results with 78.97\% strict accuracy on ISE-DSC01
and 80.82\% on ViWikiFC, securing 1st place in the UIT Data Science Challenge.
Additionally, SemViQA Faster improves inference speed 7x while maintaining
competitive accuracy. SemViQA sets a new benchmark for Vietnamese fact
verification, advancing the fight against misinformation. The source code is
available at: https://github.com/DAVID-NGUYEN-S16/SemViQA.

---

## 4. [LADDER: Self-Improving LLMs Through Recursive Problem Decomposition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00735)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00735](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00735)

**Authors**: Toby Simonds, Akira Yoshiyama

**Published**: 2025-03-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Akira Yoshiyama

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Tufalabs/MITIntegrationBee)

### Abstract

We introduce LADDER (Learning through Autonomous Difficulty-Driven Example
Recursion), a framework which enables Large Language Models to autonomously
improve their problem-solving capabilities through self-guided learning by
recursively generating and solving progressively simpler variants of complex
problems. Unlike prior approaches that require curated datasets or human
feedback, LADDER leverages a model's own capabilities to generate easier
question variants. We demonstrate LADDER's effectiveness in the subject of
mathematical integration, improving Llama 3.2 3B's accuracy from 1% to 82% on
undergraduate-level problems and enabling Qwen2.5 7B Deepseek-R1 Distilled to
achieve 73% on the MIT Integration Bee qualifying examination. We also
introduce TTRL (Test-Time Reinforcement Learning), where we perform
reinforcement learning on variants of test problems at inference time. TTRL
enables Qwen2.5 7B Deepseek-R1 Distilled to achieve a state-of-the-art score of
90% on the MIT Integration Bee qualifying examination, surpassing OpenAI o1's
performance. These results show how self-directed strategic learning can
achieve significant capability improvements without relying on architectural
scaling or human supervision.

---

## 5. [Wikipedia in the Era of LLMs: Evolution and Risks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02879)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02879](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02879)

**Authors**: Siming Huang, Yuliang Xu, Mingmeng Geng, Yao Wan, Dongping Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Chen Dongping

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/HSM316/LLM_Wikipedia)

### Abstract

In this paper, we present a thorough analysis of the impact of Large Language
Models (LLMs) on Wikipedia, examining the evolution of Wikipedia through
existing data and using simulations to explore potential risks. We begin by
analyzing page views and article content to study Wikipedia's recent changes
and assess the impact of LLMs. Subsequently, we evaluate how LLMs affect
various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks related to Wikipedia, including
machine translation and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). Our findings and
simulation results reveal that Wikipedia articles have been influenced by LLMs,
with an impact of approximately 1%-2% in certain categories. If the machine
translation benchmark based on Wikipedia is influenced by LLMs, the scores of
the models may become inflated, and the comparative results among models might
shift as well. Moreover, the effectiveness of RAG might decrease if the
knowledge base becomes polluted by LLM-generated content. While LLMs have not
yet fully changed Wikipedia's language and knowledge structures, we believe
that our empirical findings signal the need for careful consideration of
potential future risks.

---

## 6. [Mask-DPO: Generalizable Fine-grained Factuality Alignment of LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02846)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02846](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02846)

**Authors**: Yuzhe Gu, Wenwei Zhang, Chengqi Lyu, Dahua Lin, Kai Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Yuzhe Gu

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/open-compass/ANAH)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) exhibit hallucinations (i.e., unfaithful or
nonsensical information) when serving as AI assistants in various domains.
Since hallucinations always come with truthful content in the LLM responses,
previous factuality alignment methods that conduct response-level preference
learning inevitably introduced noises during training. Therefore, this paper
proposes a fine-grained factuality alignment method based on Direct Preference
Optimization (DPO), called Mask-DPO. Incorporating sentence-level factuality as
mask signals, Mask-DPO only learns from factually correct sentences in the
preferred samples and prevents the penalty on factual contents in the not
preferred samples, which resolves the ambiguity in the preference learning.
Extensive experimental results demonstrate that Mask-DPO can significantly
improve the factuality of LLMs responses to questions from both in-domain and
out-of-domain datasets, although these questions and their corresponding topics
are unseen during training. Only trained on the ANAH train set, the score of
Llama3.1-8B-Instruct on the ANAH test set is improved from 49.19% to 77.53%,
even surpassing the score of Llama3.1-70B-Instruct (53.44%), while its
FactScore on the out-of-domain Biography dataset is also improved from 30.29%
to 39.39%. We further study the generalization property of Mask-DPO using
different training sample scaling strategies and find that scaling the number
of topics in the dataset is more effective than the number of questions. We
provide a hypothesis of what factual alignment is doing with LLMs, on the
implication of this phenomenon, and conduct proof-of-concept experiments to
verify it. We hope the method and the findings pave the way for future research
on scaling factuality alignment.

---

## 7. [Societal Alignment Frameworks Can Improve LLM Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00069)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00069](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00069)

**Authors**: Karolina Stańczak, Nicholas Meade, Mehar Bhatia, Hattie Zhou, Konstantin Böttinger, Jeremy Barnes, Jason Stanley, Jessica Montgomery, Richard Zemel, Nicolas Papernot, Nicolas Chapados, Denis Therien, Timothy P. Lillicrap, Ana Marasović, Sylvie Delacroix, Gillian K. Hadfield, Siva Reddy

**Published**: 2025-02-27 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Karolina Stanczak

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Recent progress in large language models (LLMs) has focused on producing
responses that meet human expectations and align with shared values - a process
coined alignment. However, aligning LLMs remains challenging due to the
inherent disconnect between the complexity of human values and the narrow
nature of the technological approaches designed to address them. Current
alignment methods often lead to misspecified objectives, reflecting the broader
issue of incomplete contracts, the impracticality of specifying a contract
between a model developer, and the model that accounts for every scenario in
LLM alignment. In this paper, we argue that improving LLM alignment requires
incorporating insights from societal alignment frameworks, including social,
economic, and contractual alignment, and discuss potential solutions drawn from
these domains. Given the role of uncertainty within societal alignment
frameworks, we then investigate how it manifests in LLM alignment. We end our
discussion by offering an alternative view on LLM alignment, framing the
underspecified nature of its objectives as an opportunity rather than perfect
their specification. Beyond technical improvements in LLM alignment, we discuss
the need for participatory alignment interface designs.

---

## 8. [DoraCycle: Domain-Oriented Adaptation of Unified Generative Model in
  Multimodal Cycles](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.03651)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.03651](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03651)

**Authors**: Rui Zhao, Weijia Mao, Mike Zheng Shou

**Published**: 2025-03-05 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Rui Zhao

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/showlab/DoraCycle)

### Abstract

Adapting generative models to specific domains presents an effective solution
for satisfying specialized requirements. However, adapting to some complex
domains remains challenging, especially when these domains require substantial
paired data to capture the targeted distributions. Since unpaired data from a
single modality, such as vision or language, is more readily available, we
utilize the bidirectional mappings between vision and language learned by the
unified generative model to enable training on unpaired data for domain
adaptation. Specifically, we propose DoraCycle, which integrates two multimodal
cycles: text-to-image-to-text and image-to-text-to-image. The model is
optimized through cross-entropy loss computed at the cycle endpoints, where
both endpoints share the same modality. This facilitates self-evolution of the
model without reliance on annotated text-image pairs. Experimental results
demonstrate that for tasks independent of paired knowledge, such as
stylization, DoraCycle can effectively adapt the unified model using only
unpaired data. For tasks involving new paired knowledge, such as specific
identities, a combination of a small set of paired image-text examples and
larger-scale unpaired data is sufficient for effective domain-oriented
adaptation. The code will be released at https://github.com/showlab/DoraCycle.

---

## 9. [PipeOffload: Improving Scalability of Pipeline Parallelism with Memory
  Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01328)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01328](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01328)

**Authors**: Xinyi Wan, Penghui Qi, Guangxing Huang, Jialin Li, Min Lin

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Xinyi Wan

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sail-sg/zero-bubble)

### Abstract

Pipeline parallelism (PP) is widely used for training large language models
(LLMs), yet its scalability is often constrained by high activation memory
consumption as the number of in-flight microbatches grows with the degree of
PP. In this paper, we focus on addressing this challenge by leveraging the
under-explored memory offload strategy in PP. With empirical study, we discover
that in the majority of standard configurations, at least half, and potentially
all, of the activations can be offloaded with negligible overhead. In the cases
where full overload is not possible, we introduce a novel selective offload
strategy that decreases peak activation memory in a better-than-linear manner.
Furthermore, we integrate memory offload with other techniques to jointly
consider overall throughput and memory limitation. Our experiments proves that
the per-device activation memory effectively reduces with the total number of
stages, making PP a stronger alternative than TP, offering up to a 19\%
acceleration with even lower memory consumption. The implementation is
open-sourced at
https://github.com/sail-sg/zero-bubble-pipeline-parallelism{this url}.

---

## 10. [Iterative Value Function Optimization for Guided Decoding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02368)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02368](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02368)

**Authors**: Zhenhua Liu, Lijun Li, Ruizhe Chen, Yuxian Jiang, Tong Zhu, Wenliang Chen, Jing Shao

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Zhenhua Liu

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

While Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has become the
predominant method for controlling language model outputs, it suffers from high
computational costs and training instability. Guided decoding, especially
value-guided methods, offers a cost-effective alternative by controlling
outputs without re-training models. However, the accuracy of the value function
is crucial for value-guided decoding, as inaccuracies can lead to suboptimal
decision-making and degraded performance. Existing methods struggle with
accurately estimating the optimal value function, leading to less effective
control. We propose Iterative Value Function Optimization, a novel framework
that addresses these limitations through two key components: Monte Carlo Value
Estimation, which reduces estimation variance by exploring diverse
trajectories, and Iterative On-Policy Optimization, which progressively
improves value estimation through collecting trajectories from value-guided
policies. Extensive experiments on text summarization, multi-turn dialogue, and
instruction following demonstrate the effectiveness of value-guided decoding
approaches in aligning language models. These approaches not only achieve
alignment but also significantly reduce computational costs by leveraging
principled value function optimization for efficient and effective control.

---

## 11. [Unified Video Action Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00200)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00200](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00200)

**Authors**: Shuang Li, Yihuai Gao, Dorsa Sadigh, Shuran Song

**Published**: 2025-02-28 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Shuang Li

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ShuangLI59/unified_video_action) | [Project Page](https://unified-video-action-model.github.io/)

### Abstract

A unified video and action model holds significant promise for robotics,
where videos provide rich scene information for action prediction, and actions
provide dynamics information for video prediction. However, effectively
combining video generation and action prediction remains challenging, and
current video generation-based methods struggle to match the performance of
direct policy learning in action accuracy and inference speed. To bridge this
gap, we introduce the Unified Video Action model (UVA), which jointly optimizes
video and action predictions to achieve both high accuracy and efficient action
inference. The key lies in learning a joint video-action latent representation
and decoupling video-action decoding. The joint latent representation bridges
the visual and action domains, effectively modeling the relationship between
video and action sequences. Meanwhile, the decoupled decoding, powered by two
lightweight diffusion heads, enables high-speed action inference by bypassing
video generation during inference. Such a unified framework further enables
versatile functionality through masked input training. By selectively masking
actions or videos, a single model can tackle diverse tasks beyond policy
learning, such as forward and inverse dynamics modeling and video generation.
Via an extensive set of experiments, we demonstrate that UVA can serve as a
general-purpose solution for a wide range of robotics tasks, such as policy
learning, forward/inverse dynamics and video observation prediction, without
compromising performance compared to methods tailored for specific
applications. Results are best viewed on
https://unified-video-action-model.github.io/.

---

## 12. [RectifiedHR: Enable Efficient High-Resolution Image Generation via
  Energy Rectification](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02537)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02537](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02537)

**Authors**: Zhen Yang, Guibao Shen, Liang Hou, Mushui Liu, Luozhou Wang, Xin Tao, Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang, Ying-Cong Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Zhen Yang

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/EnVision-Research/RectifiedHR) | [Project Page](https://zhenyangcs.github.io/RectifiedHR-Diffusion/)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have achieved remarkable advances in various image
generation tasks. However, their performance notably declines when generating
images at resolutions higher than those used during the training period.
Despite the existence of numerous methods for producing high-resolution images,
they either suffer from inefficiency or are hindered by complex operations. In
this paper, we propose RectifiedHR, an efficient and straightforward solution
for training-free high-resolution image generation. Specifically, we introduce
the noise refresh strategy, which theoretically only requires a few lines of
code to unlock the model's high-resolution generation ability and improve
efficiency. Additionally, we first observe the phenomenon of energy decay that
may cause image blurriness during the high-resolution image generation process.
To address this issue, we propose an Energy Rectification strategy, where
modifying the hyperparameters of the classifier-free guidance effectively
improves the generation performance. Our method is entirely training-free and
boasts a simple implementation logic. Through extensive comparisons with
numerous baseline methods, our RectifiedHR demonstrates superior effectiveness
and efficiency.

---

## 13. [AppAgentX: Evolving GUI Agents as Proficient Smartphone Users](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02268)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02268](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02268)

**Authors**: Wenjia Jiang, Yangyang Zhuang, Chenxi Song, Xu Yang, Chi Zhang

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Chi Zhang

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Westlake-AGI-Lab/AppAgentX) | [Project Page](https://appagentx.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have led to the
development of intelligent LLM-based agents capable of interacting with
graphical user interfaces (GUIs). These agents demonstrate strong reasoning and
adaptability, enabling them to perform complex tasks that traditionally
required predefined rules. However, the reliance on step-by-step reasoning in
LLM-based agents often results in inefficiencies, particularly for routine
tasks. In contrast, traditional rule-based systems excel in efficiency but lack
the intelligence and flexibility to adapt to novel scenarios. To address this
challenge, we propose a novel evolutionary framework for GUI agents that
enhances operational efficiency while retaining intelligence and flexibility.
Our approach incorporates a memory mechanism that records the agent's task
execution history. By analyzing this history, the agent identifies repetitive
action sequences and evolves high-level actions that act as shortcuts,
replacing these low-level operations and improving efficiency. This allows the
agent to focus on tasks requiring more complex reasoning, while simplifying
routine actions. Experimental results on multiple benchmark tasks demonstrate
that our approach significantly outperforms existing methods in both efficiency
and accuracy. The code will be open-sourced to support further research.

---

## 14. [Language Models can Self-Improve at State-Value Estimation for Better
  Search](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02878)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02878](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02878)

**Authors**: Ethan Mendes, Alan Ritter

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Ethan Mendes

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ethanm88/self-taught-lookahead)

### Abstract

Collecting ground truth task completion rewards or human demonstrations for
multi-step reasoning tasks is often cost-prohibitive and time-consuming,
especially in interactive domains like web tasks. To address this bottleneck,
we present self-taught lookahead, a self-supervised method that leverages
state-transition dynamics to train a value model capable of effectively guiding
language model-controlled search. We find that moderately sized (8 billion
parameters) open-weight value models improved with self-taught lookahead can
match the performance of using a frontier LLM such as gpt-4o as the value
model. Furthermore, we find that self-taught lookahead improves performance by
20% while reducing costs 37x compared to previous LLM-based tree search,
without relying on ground truth rewards.

---

## 15. [Q-Filters: Leveraging QK Geometry for Efficient KV Cache Compression](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02812)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02812](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02812)

**Authors**: Nathan Godey, Alessio Devoto, Yu Zhao, Simone Scardapane, Pasquale Minervini, Éric de la Clergerie, Benoît Sagot

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Nathan Godey

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NathanGodey/qfilters)

### Abstract

Autoregressive language models rely on a Key-Value (KV) Cache, which avoids
re-computing past hidden states during generation, making it faster. As model
sizes and context lengths grow, the KV Cache becomes a significant memory
bottleneck, which calls for compression methods that limit its size during
generation. In this paper, we discover surprising properties of Query (Q) and
Key (K) vectors that allow us to efficiently approximate attention scores
without computing the attention maps. We propose Q-Filters, a training-free KV
Cache compression method that filters out less crucial Key-Value pairs based on
a single context-agnostic projection. Contrarily to many alternatives,
Q-Filters is compatible with FlashAttention, as it does not require direct
access to attention weights. Experimental results in long-context settings
demonstrate that Q-Filters is competitive with attention-based compression
methods such as SnapKV in retrieval tasks while consistently outperforming
efficient compression schemes such as Streaming-LLM in generation setups.
Notably, Q-Filters achieves a 99% accuracy in the needle-in-a-haystack task
with a x32 compression level while reducing the generation perplexity drop by
up to 65% in text generation compared to Streaming-LLM.

---

## 16. [ATLaS: Agent Tuning via Learning Critical Steps](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02197)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02197](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02197)

**Authors**: Zhixun Chen, Ming Li, Yuxuan Huang, Yali Du, Meng Fang, Tianyi Zhou

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Tianyi Zhou

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Large Language Model (LLM) agents have demonstrated remarkable generalization
capabilities across multi-domain tasks. Existing agent tuning approaches
typically employ supervised finetuning on entire expert trajectories. However,
behavior-cloning of full trajectories can introduce expert bias and weaken
generalization to states not covered by the expert data. Additionally, critical
steps, such as planning, complex reasoning for intermediate subtasks, and
strategic decision-making, are essential to success in agent tasks, so learning
these steps is the key to improving LLM agents. For more effective and
efficient agent tuning, we propose ATLaS that identifies the critical steps in
expert trajectories and finetunes LLMs solely on these steps with reduced
costs. By steering the training's focus to a few critical steps, our method
mitigates the risk of overfitting entire trajectories and promotes
generalization across different environments and tasks. In extensive
experiments, an LLM finetuned on only 30% critical steps selected by ATLaS
outperforms the LLM finetuned on all steps and recent open-source LLM agents.
ATLaS maintains and improves base LLM skills as generalist agents interacting
with diverse environments.

---

## 17. [UFO: A Unified Approach to Fine-grained Visual Perception via Open-ended
  Language Interface](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01342)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01342](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01342)

**Authors**: Hao Tang, Chenwei Xie, Haiyang Wang, Xiaoyi Bao, Tingyu Weng, Pandeng Li, Yun Zheng, Liwei Wang

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Hao Tang

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nnnth/UFO)

### Abstract

Generalist models have achieved remarkable success in both language and
vision-language tasks, showcasing the potential of unified modeling. However,
effectively integrating fine-grained perception tasks like detection and
segmentation into these models remains a significant challenge. This is
primarily because these tasks often rely heavily on task-specific designs and
architectures that can complicate the modeling process. To address this
challenge, we present \ours, a framework that Unifies
Fine-grained visual perception tasks through an Open-ended
language interface. By transforming all perception targets into the language
space, \ours unifies object-level detection, pixel-level segmentation, and
image-level vision-language tasks into a single model. Additionally, we
introduce a novel embedding retrieval approach that relies solely on the
language interface to support segmentation tasks. Our framework bridges the gap
between fine-grained perception and vision-language tasks, significantly
simplifying architectural design and training strategies while achieving
comparable or superior performance to methods with intricate task-specific
designs. After multi-task training on five standard visual perception datasets,
\ours outperforms the previous state-of-the-art generalist models by 12.3 mAP
on COCO instance segmentation and 3.3 mIoU on ADE20K semantic segmentation.
Furthermore, our method seamlessly integrates with existing MLLMs, effectively
combining fine-grained perception capabilities with their advanced language
abilities, thereby enabling more challenging tasks such as reasoning
segmentation. Code and models will be publicly available.

---

## 18. [FR-Spec: Accelerating Large-Vocabulary Language Models via
  Frequency-Ranked Speculative Sampling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14856)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14856](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14856)

**Authors**: Weilin Zhao, Tengyu Pan, Xu Han, Yudi Zhang, Ao Sun, Yuxiang Huang, Kaihuo Zhang, Weilun Zhao, Yuxuan Li, Jianyong Wang, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Weilin Zhao

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thunlp/FR-Spec)

### Abstract

Speculative sampling has emerged as an important technique for accelerating
the auto-regressive generation process of large language models (LLMs) by
utilizing a draft-then-verify mechanism to produce multiple tokens per forward
pass. While state-of-the-art speculative sampling methods use only a single
layer and a language modeling (LM) head as the draft model to achieve
impressive layer compression, their efficiency gains are substantially reduced
for large-vocabulary LLMs, such as Llama-3-8B with a vocabulary of 128k tokens.
To address this, we present FR-Spec, a frequency-ranked speculative sampling
framework that optimizes draft candidate selection through vocabulary space
compression. By constraining the draft search to a frequency-prioritized token
subset, our method reduces LM Head computation overhead by 75% while ensuring
the equivalence of the final output distribution. Experiments across multiple
datasets demonstrate an average of 1.12times speedup over the
state-of-the-art speculative sampling method EAGLE-2.

---

## 19. [IterPref: Focal Preference Learning for Code Generation via Iterative
  Debugging](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02783)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02783](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02783)

**Authors**: Jie Wu, Haoling Li, Xin Zhang, Jianwen Luo, Yangyu Huang, Ruihang Chu, Yujiu Yang, Scarlett Li

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Haoling Li

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/JieWu02/Target-DPO)

### Abstract

Preference learning enhances Code LLMs beyond supervised fine-tuning by
leveraging relative quality comparisons. Existing methods construct preference
pairs from
  candidates based on test case success, treating the higher pass rate sample
as positive and the lower as negative. However, this approach does not pinpoint
specific errors in the code, which prevents the model from learning more
informative error correction patterns, as aligning failing code as a whole
lacks the granularity needed to capture meaningful error-resolution
relationships. To address these issues, we propose IterPref, a new preference
alignment framework that mimics human iterative debugging to refine Code LLMs.
IterPref explicitly locates error regions and aligns the corresponding tokens
via a tailored DPO algorithm. To generate informative pairs, we introduce the
CodeFlow dataset, where samples are iteratively refined until passing tests,
with modifications capturing error corrections. Extensive experiments show that
a diverse suite of Code LLMs equipped with IterPref achieves significant
performance gains in code generation and improves on challenging tasks like
BigCodeBench. In-depth analysis reveals that IterPref yields fewer errors. Our
code and data will be made publicaly available.

---

## 20. [Q-Eval-100K: Evaluating Visual Quality and Alignment Level for
  Text-to-Vision Content](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02357)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02357](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02357)

**Authors**: Zicheng Zhang, Tengchuan Kou, Shushi Wang, Chunyi Li, Wei Sun, Wei Wang, Xiaoyu Li, Zongyu Wang, Xuezhi Cao, Xiongkuo Min, Xiaohong Liu, Guangtao Zhai

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Zicheng Zhang

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zzc-1998/q-eval)

### Abstract

Evaluating text-to-vision content hinges on two crucial aspects: visual
quality and alignment. While significant progress has been made in developing
objective models to assess these dimensions, the performance of such models
heavily relies on the scale and quality of human annotations. According to
Scaling Law, increasing the number of human-labeled instances follows a
predictable pattern that enhances the performance of evaluation models.
Therefore, we introduce a comprehensive dataset designed to Evaluate Visual
quality and Alignment Level for text-to-vision content (Q-EVAL-100K), featuring
the largest collection of human-labeled Mean Opinion Scores (MOS) for the
mentioned two aspects. The Q-EVAL-100K dataset encompasses both text-to-image
and text-to-video models, with 960K human annotations specifically focused on
visual quality and alignment for 100K instances (60K images and 40K videos).
Leveraging this dataset with context prompt, we propose Q-Eval-Score, a unified
model capable of evaluating both visual quality and alignment with special
improvements for handling long-text prompt alignment. Experimental results
indicate that the proposed Q-Eval-Score achieves superior performance on both
visual quality and alignment, with strong generalization capabilities across
other benchmarks. These findings highlight the significant value of the
Q-EVAL-100K dataset. Data and codes will be available at
https://github.com/zzc-1998/Q-Eval.

---

## 21. [Improve Representation for Imbalanced Regression through Geometric
  Constraints](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.00876)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.00876](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00876)

**Authors**: Zijian Dong, Yilei Wu, Chongyao Chen, Yingtian Zou, Yichi Zhang, Juan Helen Zhou

**Published**: 2025-03-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Zijian Dong

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yilei-wu/imbalanced-regression)

### Abstract

In representation learning, uniformity refers to the uniform feature
distribution in the latent space (i.e., unit hypersphere). Previous work has
shown that improving uniformity contributes to the learning of
under-represented classes. However, most of the previous work focused on
classification; the representation space of imbalanced regression remains
unexplored. Classification-based methods are not suitable for regression tasks
because they cluster features into distinct groups without considering the
continuous and ordered nature essential for regression. In a geometric aspect,
we uniquely focus on ensuring uniformity in the latent space for imbalanced
regression through two key losses: enveloping and homogeneity. The enveloping
loss encourages the induced trace to uniformly occupy the surface of a
hypersphere, while the homogeneity loss ensures smoothness, with
representations evenly spaced at consistent intervals. Our method integrates
these geometric principles into the data representations via a Surrogate-driven
Representation Learning (SRL) framework. Experiments with real-world regression
and operator learning tasks highlight the importance of uniformity in
imbalanced regression and validate the efficacy of our geometry-based loss
functions.

---

## 22. [SPIDER: A Comprehensive Multi-Organ Supervised Pathology Dataset and
  Baseline Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02876)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02876](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02876)

**Authors**: Dmitry Nechaev, Alexey Pchelnikov, Ekaterina Ivanova

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Dmitry Nechaev

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/HistAI/SPIDER) | [Project Page](https://www.hist.ai/)

### Abstract

Advancing AI in computational pathology requires large, high-quality, and
diverse datasets, yet existing public datasets are often limited in organ
diversity, class coverage, or annotation quality. To bridge this gap, we
introduce SPIDER (Supervised Pathology Image-DEscription Repository), the
largest publicly available patch-level dataset covering multiple organ types,
including Skin, Colorectal, and Thorax, with comprehensive class coverage for
each organ. SPIDER provides high-quality annotations verified by expert
pathologists and includes surrounding context patches, which enhance
classification performance by providing spatial context.
  Alongside the dataset, we present baseline models trained on SPIDER using the
Hibou-L foundation model as a feature extractor combined with an
attention-based classification head. The models achieve state-of-the-art
performance across multiple tissue categories and serve as strong benchmarks
for future digital pathology research. Beyond patch classification, the model
enables rapid identification of significant areas, quantitative tissue metrics,
and establishes a foundation for multimodal approaches.
  Both the dataset and trained models are publicly available to advance
research, reproducibility, and AI-driven pathology development. Access them at:
https://github.com/HistAI/SPIDER

---

## 23. [A Token-level Text Image Foundation Model for Document Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02304)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02304](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02304)

**Authors**: Tongkun Guan, Zining Wang, Pei Fu, Zhengtao Guo, Wei Shen, Kai Zhou, Tiezhu Yue, Chen Duan, Hao Sun, Qianyi Jiang, Junfeng Luo, Xiaokang Yang

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by TongkunGuan

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Token-family/TokenOCR) | [Project Page](https://token-family.github.io/TokenOCR_project/)

### Abstract

In recent years, general visual foundation models (VFMs) have witnessed
increasing adoption, particularly as image encoders for popular multi-modal
large language models (MLLMs). However, without semantically fine-grained
supervision, these models still encounter fundamental prediction errors in the
context of downstream text-image-related tasks, i.e., perception, understanding
and reasoning with images containing small and dense texts. To bridge this gap,
we develop TokenOCR, the first token-level visual foundation model specifically
tailored for text-image-related tasks, designed to support a variety of
traditional downstream applications. To facilitate the pretraining of TokenOCR,
we also devise a high-quality data production pipeline that constructs the
first token-level image text dataset, TokenIT, comprising 20 million images and
1.8 billion token-mask pairs. Furthermore, leveraging this foundation with
exceptional image-as-text capability, we seamlessly replace previous VFMs with
TokenOCR to construct a document-level MLLM, TokenVL, for VQA-based document
understanding tasks. Finally, extensive experiments demonstrate the
effectiveness of TokenOCR and TokenVL. Code, datasets, and weights will be
available at https://token-family.github.io/TokenOCR_project.

---

## 24. [Tabby: Tabular Data Synthesis with Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02152)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02152](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02152)

**Authors**: Sonia Cromp, Satya Sai Srinath Namburi GNVV, Mohammed Alkhudhayri, Catherine Cao, Samuel Guo, Nicholas Roberts, Frederic Sala

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Sonia

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/soCromp/tabby) | [Project Page](https://github.com/soCromp/tabby)

### Abstract

While advances in large language models (LLMs) have greatly improved the
quality of synthetic text data in recent years, synthesizing tabular data has
received relatively less attention. We address this disparity with Tabby, a
simple but powerful post-training modification to the standard Transformer
language model architecture, enabling its use for tabular dataset synthesis.
Tabby enables the representation of differences across columns using Gated
Mixture-of-Experts, with column-specific sets of parameters. Empirically, Tabby
results in data quality near or equal to that of real data. By pairing our
novel LLM table training technique, Plain, with Tabby, we observe up to a 44%
improvement in quality over previous methods. We also show that Tabby extends
beyond tables to more general structured data, reaching parity with real data
on a nested JSON dataset as well.

---

## 25. [A Multimodal Symphony: Integrating Taste and Sound through Generative AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02823)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02823](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02823)

**Authors**: Matteo Spanio, Massimiliano Zampini, Antonio Rodà, Franco Pierucci

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Matteo Spanio

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/matteospanio/tasty-musicgen-small) | [Project Page](https://osf.io/xs5jy/)

### Abstract

In recent decades, neuroscientific and psychological research has traced
direct relationships between taste and auditory perceptions. This article
explores multimodal generative models capable of converting taste information
into music, building on this foundational research. We provide a brief review
of the state of the art in this field, highlighting key findings and
methodologies. We present an experiment in which a fine-tuned version of a
generative music model (MusicGEN) is used to generate music based on detailed
taste descriptions provided for each musical piece. The results are promising:
according the participants' (n=111) evaluation, the fine-tuned model produces
music that more coherently reflects the input taste descriptions compared to
the non-fine-tuned model. This study represents a significant step towards
understanding and developing embodied interactions between AI, sound, and
taste, opening new possibilities in the field of generative AI. We release our
dataset, code and pre-trained model at: https://osf.io/xs5jy/.

---

## 26. [Discrete-Time Hybrid Automata Learning: Legged Locomotion Meets
  Skateboarding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01842)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01842](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01842)

**Authors**: Hang Liu, Sangli Teng, Ben Liu, Wei Zhang, Maani Ghaffari

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-05 by Hang Liu

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

This paper introduces Discrete-time Hybrid Automata Learning (DHAL), a
framework using on-policy Reinforcement Learning to identify and execute
mode-switching without trajectory segmentation or event function learning.
Hybrid dynamical systems, which include continuous flow and discrete mode
switching, can model robotics tasks like legged robot locomotion. Model-based
methods usually depend on predefined gaits, while model-free approaches lack
explicit mode-switching knowledge. Current methods identify discrete modes via
segmentation before regressing continuous flow, but learning high-dimensional
complex rigid body dynamics without trajectory labels or segmentation is a
challenging open problem. Our approach incorporates a beta policy distribution
and a multi-critic architecture to model contact-guided motions, exemplified by
a challenging quadrupedal robot skateboard task. We validate our method through
simulations and real-world tests, demonstrating robust performance in hybrid
dynamical systems.

---
