# Daily Papers - 2025-03-07

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-03-07)

Total papers: 21

---

## 1. [START: Self-taught Reasoner with Tools](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04625)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04625](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04625)

**Authors**: Chengpeng Li, Mingfeng Xue, Zhenru Zhang, Jiaxi Yang, Beichen Zhang, Xiang Wang, Bowen Yu, Binyuan Hui, Junyang Lin, Dayiheng Liu

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 113

### Abstract

Large reasoning models (LRMs) like OpenAI-o1 and DeepSeek-R1 have
demonstrated remarkable capabilities in complex reasoning tasks through the
utilization of long Chain-of-thought (CoT). However, these models often suffer
from hallucinations and inefficiencies due to their reliance solely on internal
reasoning processes. In this paper, we introduce START (Self-Taught Reasoner
with Tools), a novel tool-integrated long CoT reasoning LLM that significantly
enhances reasoning capabilities by leveraging external tools. Through code
execution, START is capable of performing complex computations, self-checking,
exploring diverse methods, and self-debugging, thereby addressing the
limitations of LRMs. The core innovation of START lies in its self-learning
framework, which comprises two key techniques: 1) Hint-infer: We demonstrate
that inserting artificially designed hints (e.g., ``Wait, maybe using Python
here is a good idea.'') during the inference process of a LRM effectively
stimulates its ability to utilize external tools without the need for any
demonstration data. Hint-infer can also serve as a simple and effective
sequential test-time scaling method; 2) Hint Rejection Sampling Fine-Tuning
(Hint-RFT): Hint-RFT combines Hint-infer and RFT by scoring, filtering, and
modifying the reasoning trajectories with tool invocation generated by a LRM
via Hint-infer, followed by fine-tuning the LRM. Through this framework, we
have fine-tuned the QwQ-32B model to achieve START. On PhD-level science QA
(GPQA), competition-level math benchmarks (AMC23, AIME24, AIME25), and the
competition-level code benchmark (LiveCodeBench), START achieves accuracy rates
of 63.6%, 95.0%, 66.7%, 47.1%, and 47.3%, respectively. It significantly
outperforms the base QwQ-32B and achieves performance comparable to the
state-of-the-art open-weight model R1-Distill-Qwen-32B and the proprietary
model o1-Preview.

---

## 2. [Token-Efficient Long Video Understanding for Multimodal LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04130)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04130](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04130)

**Authors**: Jindong Jiang, Xiuyu Li, Zhijian Liu, Muyang Li, Guo Chen, Zhiqi Li, De-An Huang, Guilin Liu, Zhiding Yu, Kurt Keutzer, Sungjin Ahn, Jan Kautz, Hongxu Yin, Yao Lu, Song Han, Wonmin Byeon

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 96

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Sakshi113/mmau) | [Project Page](https://research.nvidia.com/labs/lpr/storm/)

### Abstract

Recent advances in video-based multimodal large language models (Video-LLMs)
have significantly improved video understanding by processing videos as
sequences of image frames. However, many existing methods treat frames
independently in the vision backbone, lacking explicit temporal modeling, which
limits their ability to capture dynamic patterns and efficiently handle long
videos. To address these limitations, we introduce STORM
(Spatiotemporal TOken Reduction for
Multimodal LLMs), a novel architecture incorporating a dedicated
temporal encoder between the image encoder and the LLM. Our temporal encoder
leverages the Mamba State Space Model to integrate temporal information into
image tokens, generating enriched representations that preserve inter-frame
dynamics across the entire video sequence. This enriched encoding not only
enhances video reasoning capabilities but also enables effective token
reduction strategies, including test-time sampling and training-based temporal
and spatial pooling, substantially reducing computational demands on the LLM
without sacrificing key temporal information. By integrating these techniques,
our approach simultaneously reduces training and inference latency while
improving performance, enabling efficient and robust video understanding over
extended temporal contexts. Extensive evaluations show that STORM achieves
state-of-the-art results across various long video understanding benchmarks
(more than 5\% improvement on MLVU and LongVideoBench) while reducing the
computation costs by up to 8times and the decoding latency by
2.4-2.9times for the fixed numbers of input frames. Project page is
available at https://research.nvidia.com/labs/lpr/storm

---

## 3. [LLMVoX: Autoregressive Streaming Text-to-Speech Model for Any LLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04724)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04724](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04724)

**Authors**: Sambal Shikhar, Mohammed Irfan Kurpath, Sahal Shaji Mullappilly, Jean Lahoud, Fahad Khan, Rao Muhammad Anwer, Salman Khan, Hisham Cholakkal

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Sahal Shaji

**Upvotes**: 72

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/LLMVoX) | [Project Page](https://mbzuai-oryx.github.io/LLMVoX/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in speech-to-speech dialogue systems leverage LLMs for
multimodal interactions, yet they remain hindered by fine-tuning requirements,
high computational overhead, and text-speech misalignment. Existing
speech-enabled LLMs often degrade conversational quality by modifying the LLM,
thereby compromising its linguistic capabilities. In contrast, we propose
LLMVoX, a lightweight 30M-parameter, LLM-agnostic, autoregressive streaming TTS
system that generates high-quality speech with low latency, while fully
preserving the capabilities of the base LLM. Our approach achieves a
significantly lower Word Error Rate compared to speech-enabled LLMs, while
operating at comparable latency and UTMOS score. By decoupling speech synthesis
from LLM processing via a multi-queue token streaming system, LLMVoX supports
seamless, infinite-length dialogues. Its plug-and-play design also facilitates
extension to various tasks with different backbones. Furthermore, LLMVoX
generalizes to new languages with only dataset adaptation, attaining a low
Character Error Rate on an Arabic speech task. Additionally, we have integrated
LLMVoX with a Vision-Language Model to create an omni-model with speech, text,
and vision capabilities, without requiring additional multimodal training. Our
code base and project page is available at https://mbzuai-oryx.github.io/LLMVoX .

---

## 4. [EgoLife: Towards Egocentric Life Assistant](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.03803)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.03803](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03803)

**Authors**: Jingkang Yang, Shuai Liu, Hongming Guo, Yuhao Dong, Xiamengwei Zhang, Sicheng Zhang, Pengyun Wang, Zitang Zhou, Binzhu Xie, Ziyue Wang, Bei Ouyang, Zhengyu Lin, Marco Cominelli, Zhongang Cai, Yuanhan Zhang, Peiyuan Zhang, Fangzhou Hong, Joerg Widmer, Francesco Gringoli, Lei Yang, Bo Li, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2025-03-05 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Jingkang Yang

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/EvolvingLMMs-Lab/EgoLife) | [Project Page](https://egolife-ai.github.io/)

### Abstract

We introduce EgoLife, a project to develop an egocentric life assistant that
accompanies and enhances personal efficiency through AI-powered wearable
glasses. To lay the foundation for this assistant, we conducted a comprehensive
data collection study where six participants lived together for one week,
continuously recording their daily activities - including discussions,
shopping, cooking, socializing, and entertainment - using AI glasses for
multimodal egocentric video capture, along with synchronized third-person-view
video references. This effort resulted in the EgoLife Dataset, a comprehensive
300-hour egocentric, interpersonal, multiview, and multimodal daily life
dataset with intensive annotation. Leveraging this dataset, we introduce
EgoLifeQA, a suite of long-context, life-oriented question-answering tasks
designed to provide meaningful assistance in daily life by addressing practical
questions such as recalling past relevant events, monitoring health habits, and
offering personalized recommendations. To address the key technical challenges
of (1) developing robust visual-audio models for egocentric data, (2) enabling
identity recognition, and (3) facilitating long-context question answering over
extensive temporal information, we introduce EgoButler, an integrated system
comprising EgoGPT and EgoRAG. EgoGPT is an omni-modal model trained on
egocentric datasets, achieving state-of-the-art performance on egocentric video
understanding. EgoRAG is a retrieval-based component that supports answering
ultra-long-context questions. Our experimental studies verify their working
mechanisms and reveal critical factors and bottlenecks, guiding future
improvements. By releasing our datasets, models, and benchmarks, we aim to
stimulate further research in egocentric AI assistants.

---

## 5. [Audio Flamingo 2: An Audio-Language Model with Long-Audio Understanding
  and Expert Reasoning Abilities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.03983)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.03983](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03983)

**Authors**: Sreyan Ghosh, Zhifeng Kong, Sonal Kumar, S Sakshi, Jaehyeon Kim, Wei Ping, Rafael Valle, Dinesh Manocha, Bryan Catanzaro

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Ghosh

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NVIDIA/audio-flamingo) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/spaces/nvidia/audio-flamingo-2)

### Abstract

Understanding and reasoning over non-speech sounds and music are crucial for
both humans and AI agents to interact effectively with their environments. In
this paper, we introduce Audio Flamingo 2 (AF2), an Audio-Language Model (ALM)
with advanced audio understanding and reasoning capabilities. AF2 leverages (i)
a custom CLAP model, (ii) synthetic Audio QA data for fine-grained audio
reasoning, and (iii) a multi-stage curriculum learning strategy. AF2 achieves
state-of-the-art performance with only a 3B parameter small language model,
surpassing large open-source and proprietary models across over 20 benchmarks.
Next, for the first time, we extend audio understanding to long audio segments
(30 secs to 5 mins) and propose LongAudio, a large and novel dataset for
training ALMs on long audio captioning and question-answering tasks.
Fine-tuning AF2 on LongAudio leads to exceptional performance on our proposed
LongAudioBench, an expert annotated benchmark for evaluating ALMs on long audio
understanding capabilities. We conduct extensive ablation studies to confirm
the efficacy of our approach. Project Website:
https://research.nvidia.com/labs/adlr/AF2/.

---

## 6. [LLM as a Broken Telephone: Iterative Generation Distorts Information](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.20258)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.20258](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.20258)

**Authors**: Amr Mohamed, Mingmeng Geng, Michalis Vazirgiannis, Guokan Shang

**Published**: 2025-02-27 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Amr Mohamed

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/amr-mohamedd/LLM-as-a-Broken-Telephone)

### Abstract

As large language models are increasingly responsible for online content,
concerns arise about the impact of repeatedly processing their own outputs.
Inspired by the "broken telephone" effect in chained human communication, this
study investigates whether LLMs similarly distort information through iterative
generation. Through translation-based experiments, we find that distortion
accumulates over time, influenced by language choice and chain complexity.
While degradation is inevitable, it can be mitigated through strategic
prompting techniques. These findings contribute to discussions on the long-term
effects of AI-mediated information propagation, raising important questions
about the reliability of LLM-generated content in iterative workflows.

---

## 7. [LINGOLY-TOO: Disentangling Memorisation from Reasoning with Linguistic
  Templatisation and Orthographic Obfuscation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02972)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02972](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02972)

**Authors**: Jude Khouja, Karolina Korgul, Simi Hellsten, Lingyi Yang, Vlad Neacs, Harry Mayne, Ryan Kearns, Andrew Bean, Adam Mahdi

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Jude Khouja

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jkhouja/L2) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/spaces/jkhouja/lingoly-too)

### Abstract

Effective evaluation of the reasoning capabilities of large language models
(LLMs) are susceptible to overestimation due to data exposure of evaluation
benchmarks. We introduce a framework for producing linguistic reasoning
problems that reduces the effect of memorisation in model performance estimates
and apply this framework to develop LINGOLY-TOO, a challenging evaluation
benchmark for linguistic reasoning. By developing orthographic templates, we
dynamically obfuscate the writing systems of real languages to generate
numerous question variations. These variations preserve the reasoning steps
required for each solution while reducing the likelihood of specific problem
instances appearing in model training data. Our experiments demonstrate that
frontier models, including OpenAI o1-preview and DeepSeem R1, struggle with
advanced reasoning. Our analysis also shows that LLMs exhibit noticeable
variance in accuracy across permutations of the same problem, and on average
perform better on questions appearing in their original orthography. Our
findings highlight the opaque nature of response generation in LLMs and provide
evidence that prior data exposure contributes to overestimating the reasoning
capabilities of frontier models.

---

## 8. [L^2M: Mutual Information Scaling Law for Long-Context Language
  Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04725)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04725](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04725)

**Authors**: Zhuo Chen, Oriol Mayné i Comas, Zhuotao Jin, Di Luo, Marin Soljačić

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Zhuo Chen

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/LSquaredM/mutual_info_scaling_law) | [Project Page](https://github.com/LSquaredM/mutual_info_scaling_law)

### Abstract

We rigorously establish a bipartite mutual information scaling law in natural
language that governs long-range dependencies. This scaling law, which we show
is distinct from and scales independently of the conventional two-point mutual
information, is the key to understanding long-context language modeling. Using
this scaling law, we formulate the Long-context Language Modeling (L^2M)
condition, which relates a model's capacity for effective long context length
modeling to the scaling of its latent state size for storing past information.
Our results are validated through experiments on both transformers and state
space models. This work establishes a theoretical foundation that guides the
development of large language models toward longer context lengths.

---

## 9. [IFIR: A Comprehensive Benchmark for Evaluating Instruction-Following in
  Expert-Domain Information Retrieval](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04644)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04644](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04644)

**Authors**: Tingyu Song, Guo Gan, Mingsheng Shang, Yilun Zhao

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by gan

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SighingSnow/IFIR)

### Abstract

We introduce IFIR, the first comprehensive benchmark designed to evaluate
instruction-following information retrieval (IR) in expert domains. IFIR
includes 2,426 high-quality examples and covers eight subsets across four
specialized domains: finance, law, healthcare, and science literature. Each
subset addresses one or more domain-specific retrieval tasks, replicating
real-world scenarios where customized instructions are critical. IFIR enables a
detailed analysis of instruction-following retrieval capabilities by
incorporating instructions at different levels of complexity. We also propose a
novel LLM-based evaluation method to provide a more precise and reliable
assessment of model performance in following instructions. Through extensive
experiments on 15 frontier retrieval models, including those based on LLMs, our
results reveal that current models face significant challenges in effectively
following complex, domain-specific instructions. We further provide in-depth
analyses to highlight these limitations, offering valuable insights to guide
future advancements in retriever development.

---

## 10. [HybridNorm: Towards Stable and Efficient Transformer Training via Hybrid
  Normalization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04598)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04598](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04598)

**Authors**: Zhijian Zhuo, Yutao Zeng, Ya Wang, Sijun Zhang, Jian Yang, Xiaoqing Li, Xun Zhou, Jinwen Ma

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Yutao Zeng

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/BryceZhuo/HybridNorm) | [Project Page](https://github.com/BryceZhuo/HybridNorm)

### Abstract

Transformers have become the de facto architecture for a wide range of
machine learning tasks, particularly in large language models (LLMs). Despite
their remarkable performance, challenges remain in training deep transformer
networks, especially regarding the location of layer normalization. While
Pre-Norm structures facilitate easier training due to their more prominent
identity path, they often yield suboptimal performance compared to Post-Norm.
In this paper, we propose HybridNorm, a straightforward yet
effective hybrid normalization strategy that integrates the advantages of both
Pre-Norm and Post-Norm approaches. Specifically, HybridNorm employs QKV
normalization within the attention mechanism and Post-Norm in the feed-forward
network (FFN) of each transformer block. This design not only stabilizes
training but also enhances performance, particularly in the context of LLMs.
Comprehensive experiments in both dense and sparse architectures show that
HybridNorm consistently outperforms both Pre-Norm and Post-Norm approaches,
achieving state-of-the-art results across various benchmarks. These findings
highlight the potential of HybridNorm as a more stable and effective technique
for improving the training and performance of deep transformer models. %Code
will be made publicly available. Code is available at
https://github.com/BryceZhuo/HybridNorm.

---

## 11. [FuseChat-3.0: Preference Optimization Meets Heterogeneous Model Fusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04222)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04222](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04222)

**Authors**: Ziyi Yang, Fanqi Wan, Longguang Zhong, Canbin Huang, Guosheng Liang, Xiaojun Quan

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Fanqi Wan

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SLIT-AI/FuseChat-3.0) | [Project Page](https://slit-ai.github.io/FuseChat-3.0/)

### Abstract

We introduce FuseChat-3.0, a suite of large language models (LLMs) developed
by integrating the strengths of heterogeneous source LLMs into more compact
target LLMs. Our source models include the powerful Gemma-2-27B-it,
Mistral-Large-Instruct-2407, Qwen-2.5-72B-Instruct, and Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct.
For target models, we focus on three widely-used smaller
variants-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct, Gemma-2-9B-it, and Qwen-2.5-7B-Instruct-along
with two ultra-compact options, Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct and
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct. To leverage the diverse capabilities of these source
models, we develop a specialized data construction protocol tailored to various
tasks and domains. The FuseChat-3.0 training pipeline consists of two key
stages: (1) supervised fine-tuning (SFT) to align the target and source model
distributions, and (2) Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) to apply
preferences from multiple source LLMs to fine-tune the target model. The
resulting FuseChat-3.0 models exhibit significant performance gains across
tasks such as instruction following, general knowledge, mathematics, and
coding. As illustrated in Figure 1, using Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct as the target
model, our fusion approach achieves an average improvement of 6.8 points across
14 benchmarks. Moreover, it demonstrates remarkable gains of 37.1 points and
30.1 points on the instruction-following benchmarks AlpacaEval-2 and
Arena-Hard, respectively. Our code, models, and datasets are available at
https://github.com/SLIT-AI/FuseChat-3.0.

---

## 12. [PokéChamp: an Expert-level Minimax Language Agent](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04094)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04094](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04094)

**Authors**: Seth Karten, Andy Luu Nguyen, Chi Jin

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sethkarten/pokechamp) | [Project Page](https://sites.google.com/view/pokechamp-llm)

### Abstract

We introduce Pok\'eChamp, a minimax agent powered by Large Language Models
(LLMs) for Pok\'emon battles. Built on a general framework for two-player
competitive games, Pok\'eChamp leverages the generalist capabilities of LLMs to
enhance minimax tree search. Specifically, LLMs replace three key modules: (1)
player action sampling, (2) opponent modeling, and (3) value function
estimation, enabling the agent to effectively utilize gameplay history and
human knowledge to reduce the search space and address partial observability.
Notably, our framework requires no additional LLM training. We evaluate
Pok\'eChamp in the popular Gen 9 OU format. When powered by GPT-4o, it achieves
a win rate of 76% against the best existing LLM-based bot and 84% against the
strongest rule-based bot, demonstrating its superior performance. Even with an
open-source 8-billion-parameter Llama 3.1 model, Pok\'eChamp consistently
outperforms the previous best LLM-based bot, Pok\'ellmon powered by GPT-4o,
with a 64% win rate. Pok\'eChamp attains a projected Elo of 1300-1500 on the
Pok\'emon Showdown online ladder, placing it among the top 30%-10% of human
players. In addition, this work compiles the largest real-player Pok\'emon
battle dataset, featuring over 3 million games, including more than 500k
high-Elo matches. Based on this dataset, we establish a series of battle
benchmarks and puzzles to evaluate specific battling skills. We further provide
key updates to the local game engine. We hope this work fosters further
research that leverage Pok\'emon battle as benchmark to integrate LLM
technologies with game-theoretic algorithms addressing general multiagent
problems. Videos, code, and dataset available at
https://sites.google.com/view/pokechamp-llm.

---

## 13. [How to Steer LLM Latents for Hallucination Detection?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01917)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01917](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01917)

**Authors**: Seongheon Park, Xuefeng Du, Min-Hsuan Yeh, Haobo Wang, Yixuan Li

**Published**: 2025-03-01 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Seongheon Park

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Hallucinations in LLMs pose a significant concern to their safe deployment in
real-world applications. Recent approaches have leveraged the latent space of
LLMs for hallucination detection, but their embeddings, optimized for
linguistic coherence rather than factual accuracy, often fail to clearly
separate truthful and hallucinated content. To this end, we propose the
Truthfulness Separator Vector (TSV), a lightweight and flexible steering vector
that reshapes the LLM's representation space during inference to enhance the
separation between truthful and hallucinated outputs, without altering model
parameters. Our two-stage framework first trains TSV on a small set of labeled
exemplars to form compact and well-separated clusters. It then augments the
exemplar set with unlabeled LLM generations, employing an optimal
transport-based algorithm for pseudo-labeling combined with a confidence-based
filtering process. Extensive experiments demonstrate that TSV achieves
state-of-the-art performance with minimal labeled data, exhibiting strong
generalization across datasets and providing a practical solution for
real-world LLM applications.

---

## 14. [The Best of Both Worlds: Integrating Language Models and Diffusion
  Models for Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04606)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04606](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04606)

**Authors**: Aoxiong Yin, Kai Shen, Yichong Leng, Xu Tan, Xinyu Zhou, Juncheng Li, Siliang Tang

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/landiff/landiff) | [Project Page](https://landiff.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in text-to-video (T2V) generation have been driven by two
competing paradigms: autoregressive language models and diffusion models.
However, each paradigm has intrinsic limitations: language models struggle with
visual quality and error accumulation, while diffusion models lack semantic
understanding and causal modeling. In this work, we propose LanDiff, a hybrid
framework that synergizes the strengths of both paradigms through
coarse-to-fine generation. Our architecture introduces three key innovations:
(1) a semantic tokenizer that compresses 3D visual features into compact 1D
discrete representations through efficient semantic compression, achieving a
sim14,000times compression ratio; (2) a language model that generates
semantic tokens with high-level semantic relationships; (3) a streaming
diffusion model that refines coarse semantics into high-fidelity videos.
Experiments show that LanDiff, a 5B model, achieves a score of 85.43 on the
VBench T2V benchmark, surpassing the state-of-the-art open-source models
Hunyuan Video (13B) and other commercial models such as Sora, Keling, and
Hailuo. Furthermore, our model also achieves state-of-the-art performance in
long video generation, surpassing other open-source models in this field. Our
demo can be viewed at https://landiff.github.io/.

---

## 15. [Union of Experts: Adapting Hierarchical Routing to Equivalently
  Decomposed Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02495)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02495](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02495)

**Authors**: Yujiao Yang, Jing Lian, Linhui Li

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Yujiao Yang

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/YujiaoYang-work/UoE)

### Abstract

Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) enhances model performance while maintaining
computational efficiency, making it well-suited for large-scale applications.
However, expert in exist MoE paradigm works as an individual, thereby lacking
high-quality expert interactions. Moreover, they have not been effectively
extended to attention block, which constrains further efficiency improvements.
To tackle these issues, we propose Union-of-Experts (UoE), which decomposes
transformer into an equitant group of experts, and then implement dynamic
routing on input data and experts. Our approach advances MoE design with three
key innovations: (1) We conducted equitant expert decomposition on both MLP
blocks and attention blocks based on matrix partition in tensor parallelism.
(2) We developed two routing paradigms: patch wise data selection and expert
selection, to apply routing across different levels. (3) We design the
architecture of UoE model, including Selective Multi-Head Attention (SMHA) and
Union-of-MLP-Experts (UoME). (4) We develop parallel implementation of UoE's
routing and computation operation, and optimize efficiency based on the
hardware processing analysis. The experiments demonstrate that the model
employed with UoE surpass Full Attention, state-of-art MoEs and efficient
transformers in several tasks across image and natural language domains. The
source codes are available at https://github.com/YujiaoYang-work/UoE.

---

## 16. [Dedicated Feedback and Edit Models Empower Inference-Time Scaling for
  Open-Ended General-Domain Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04378)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04378](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04378)

**Authors**: Zhilin Wang, Jiaqi Zeng, Olivier Delalleau, Daniel Egert, Ellie Evans, Hoo-Chang Shin, Felipe Soares, Yi Dong, Oleksii Kuchaiev

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Inference-Time Scaling has been critical to the success of recent models such
as OpenAI o1 and DeepSeek R1. However, many techniques used to train models for
inference-time scaling require tasks to have answers that can be verified,
limiting their application to domains such as math, coding and logical
reasoning. We take inspiration from how humans make first attempts, ask for
detailed feedback from others and make improvements based on such feedback
across a wide spectrum of open-ended endeavors. To this end, we collect data
for and train dedicated Feedback and Edit Models that are capable of performing
inference-time scaling for open-ended general-domain tasks. In our setup, one
model generates an initial response, which are given feedback by a second
model, that are then used by a third model to edit the response. We show that
performance on Arena Hard, a benchmark strongly predictive of Chatbot Arena Elo
can be boosted by scaling the number of initial response drafts, effective
feedback and edited responses. When scaled optimally, our setup based on 70B
models from the Llama 3 family can reach SoTA performance on Arena Hard at 92.7
as of 5 Mar 2025, surpassing OpenAI o1-preview-2024-09-12 with 90.4 and
DeepSeek R1 with 92.3.

---

## 17. [Identifying Sensitive Weights via Post-quantization Integral](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01901)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01901](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01901)

**Authors**: Yuezhou Hu, Weiyu Huang, Zichen Liang, Chang Chen, Jintao Zhang, Jun Zhu, Jianfei Chen

**Published**: 2025-02-28 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Jintao Zhang

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Serving Large Language Models (LLMs) is costly. However, post-training weight
quantization can address this problem by both compressing their sizes for
limited memory and saving bandwidth for acceleration. As not all weight
dimensions are equally important, those methods typically rely on a sensitivity
metric, which indicates the element-wise influence of weights on loss function
and is used to preprocess original weights for better quantization. In this
work, we conduct an empirical study on the accuracy of the sensitivity metric,
and find that existing gradient and Hessian based metrics are very inaccurate:
they underestimate quantization's impact on the loss function by orders of
magnitude, mainly due to the small convergence radius of local 2nd order
approximation, \ie, gradient and Hessian term in Taylor's formula. To tackle
this problem, we propose Post-quantization Integral (PQI), an accurate metric
to estimate posterior sensitivity in a fine-grained manner. To leverage this
accurate metric, we further propose ReQuant, a simple yet powerful framework
that mainly consists of two Dense-and-Sparse detach components: self-adaptive
outlier selection and step-wise significant weights detach. Results show that
ReQuant boosts state-of-the-art post-training quantization methods, with a
pronounced improvement of 2.66 perplexity gain on Llama 3.2 1B with QTIP.

---

## 18. [Lost in Literalism: How Supervised Training Shapes Translationese in
  LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04369)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04369](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04369)

**Authors**: Yafu Li, Ronghao Zhang, Zhilin Wang, Huajian Zhang, Leyang Cui, Yongjing Yin, Tong Xiao, Yue Zhang

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Yafu Li

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yafuly/LLM_Translationese)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success in machine
translation, demonstrating impressive performance across diverse languages.
However, translationese, characterized by overly literal and unnatural
translations, remains a persistent challenge in LLM-based translation systems.
Despite their pre-training on vast corpora of natural utterances, LLMs exhibit
translationese errors and generate unexpected unnatural translations, stemming
from biases introduced during supervised fine-tuning (SFT). In this work, we
systematically evaluate the prevalence of translationese in LLM-generated
translations and investigate its roots during supervised training. We introduce
methods to mitigate these biases, including polishing golden references and
filtering unnatural training instances. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that
these approaches significantly reduce translationese while improving
translation naturalness, validated by human evaluations and automatic metrics.
Our findings highlight the need for training-aware adjustments to optimize LLM
translation outputs, paving the way for more fluent and
target-language-consistent translations. We release the data and code at
https://github.com/yafuly/LLM_Translationese.

---

## 19. [Combining Flow Matching and Transformers for Efficient Solution of
  Bayesian Inverse Problems](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01375)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01375](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01375)

**Authors**: Daniil Sherki, Ivan Oseledets, Ekaterina Muravleva

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Daniil Sherki

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Solving Bayesian inverse problems efficiently remains a significant challenge
due to the complexity of posterior distributions and the computational cost of
traditional sampling methods. Given a series of observations and the forward
model, we want to recover the distribution of the parameters, conditioned on
observed experimental data. We show, that combining Conditional Flow Mathching
(CFM) with transformer-based architecture, we can efficiently sample from such
kind of distribution, conditioned on variable number of observations.

---

## 20. [On the Acquisition of Shared Grammatical Representations in Bilingual
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.03962)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.03962](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03962)

**Authors**: Catherine Arnett, James A. Michaelov, Benjamin K. Bergen

**Published**: 2025-03-05 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Catherine Arnett

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [Project Page](https://osf.io/5cw2e/)

### Abstract

While crosslingual transfer is crucial to contemporary language models'
multilingual capabilities, how it occurs is not well understood. In this paper,
we ask what happens to a monolingual language model when it begins to be
trained on a second language. Specifically, we train small bilingual models for
which we control the amount of data for each language and the order of language
exposure. To find evidence of shared multilingual representations, we turn to
structural priming, a method used to study grammatical representations in
humans. We first replicate previous crosslingual structural priming results and
find that after controlling for training data quantity and language exposure,
there are asymmetrical effects across language pairs and directions. We argue
that this asymmetry may shape hypotheses about human structural priming
effects. We also find that structural priming effects are less robust for less
similar language pairs, highlighting potential limitations of crosslingual
transfer learning and shared representations for typologically diverse
languages.

---

## 21. [Understanding and Predicting Derailment in Toxic Conversations on GitHub](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02191)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02191](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02191)

**Authors**: Mia Mohammad Imran, Robert Zita, Rebekah Copeland, Preetha Chatterjee, Rahat Rizvi Rahman, Kostadin Damevski

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-07 by Mia Mohammad Imran

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Software projects thrive on the involvement and contributions of individuals
from different backgrounds. However, toxic language and negative interactions
can hinder the participation and retention of contributors and alienate
newcomers. Proactive moderation strategies aim to prevent toxicity from
occurring by addressing conversations that have derailed from their intended
purpose. This study aims to understand and predict conversational derailment
leading to toxicity on GitHub.
  To facilitate this research, we curate a novel dataset comprising 202 toxic
conversations from GitHub with annotated derailment points, along with 696
non-toxic conversations as a baseline. Based on this dataset, we identify
unique characteristics of toxic conversations and derailment points, including
linguistic markers such as second-person pronouns, negation terms, and tones of
Bitter Frustration and Impatience, as well as patterns in conversational
dynamics between project contributors and external participants.
  Leveraging these empirical observations, we propose a proactive moderation
approach to automatically detect and address potentially harmful conversations
before escalation. By utilizing modern LLMs, we develop a conversation
trajectory summary technique that captures the evolution of discussions and
identifies early signs of derailment. Our experiments demonstrate that LLM
prompts tailored to provide summaries of GitHub conversations achieve 69%
F1-Score in predicting conversational derailment, strongly improving over a set
of baseline approaches.

---
