# Daily Papers - 2025-03-19

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-03-19)

Total papers: 31

---

## 1. [RWKV-7 "Goose" with Expressive Dynamic State Evolution](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14456)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14456](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14456)

**Authors**: Bo Peng, Ruichong Zhang, Daniel Goldstein, Eric Alcaide, Haowen Hou, Janna Lu, William Merrill, Guangyu Song, Kaifeng Tan, Saiteja Utpala, Nathan Wilce, Johan S. Wind, Tianyi Wu, Daniel Wuttke, Christian Zhou-Zheng

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Zhang Ruichong

**Upvotes**: 153

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/RWKV/RWKV-LM) | [Project Page](https://rwkv.cn)

### Abstract

We present RWKV-7 "Goose", a new sequence modeling architecture, along with
pre-trained language models that establish a new state-of-the-art in downstream
performance at the 3 billion parameter scale on multilingual tasks, and match
current SoTA English language performance despite being trained on dramatically
fewer tokens than other top 3B models. Nevertheless, RWKV-7 models require only
constant memory usage and constant inference time per token. RWKV-7 introduces
a newly generalized formulation of the delta rule with vector-valued gating and
in-context learning rates, as well as a relaxed value replacement rule. We show
that RWKV-7 can perform state tracking and recognize all regular languages,
while retaining parallelizability of training. This exceeds the capabilities of
Transformers under standard complexity conjectures, which are limited to
TC^0. To demonstrate RWKV-7's language modeling capability, we also
present an extended open source 3.1 trillion token multilingual corpus, and
train four RWKV-7 models ranging from 0.19 billion to 2.9 billion parameters on
this dataset.
  To foster openness, reproduction, and adoption, we release our models and
dataset component listing at https://huggingface.co/RWKV, and our training and
inference code at https://github.com/RWKV/RWKV-LM all under the Apache 2.0
License.

---

## 2. [DAPO: An Open-Source LLM Reinforcement Learning System at Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14476)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14476](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14476)

**Authors**: Qiying Yu, Zheng Zhang, Ruofei Zhu, Yufeng Yuan, Xiaochen Zuo, Yu Yue, Tiantian Fan, Gaohong Liu, Lingjun Liu, Xin Liu, Haibin Lin, Zhiqi Lin, Bole Ma, Guangming Sheng, Yuxuan Tong, Chi Zhang, Mofan Zhang, Wang Zhang, Hang Zhu, Jinhua Zhu, Jiaze Chen, Jiangjie Chen, Chengyi Wang, Hongli Yu, Weinan Dai, Yuxuan Song, Xiangpeng Wei, Hao Zhou, Jingjing Liu, Wei-Ying Ma, Ya-Qin Zhang, Lin Yan, Mu Qiao, Yonghui Wu, Mingxuan Wang

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 144

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/BytedTsinghua-SIA/DAPO) | [Project Page](https://dapo-sia.github.io/)

### Abstract

Inference scaling empowers LLMs with unprecedented reasoning ability, with
reinforcement learning as the core technique to elicit complex reasoning.
However, key technical details of state-of-the-art reasoning LLMs are concealed
(such as in OpenAI o1 blog and DeepSeek R1 technical report), thus the
community still struggles to reproduce their RL training results. We propose
the Decoupled Clip and Dynamic sAmpling
Policy Optimization (DAPO) algorithm, and
fully open-source a state-of-the-art large-scale RL system that achieves 50
points on AIME 2024 using Qwen2.5-32B base model. Unlike previous works that
withhold training details, we introduce four key techniques of our algorithm
that make large-scale LLM RL a success. In addition, we open-source our
training code, which is built on the verl framework, along with a carefully
curated and processed dataset. These components of our open-source system
enhance reproducibility and support future research in large-scale LLM RL.

---

## 3. [Impossible Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14378)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14378](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14378)

**Authors**: Zechen Bai, Hai Ci, Mike Zheng Shou

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Zechen Bai

**Upvotes**: 61

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/showlab/Impossible-Videos) | [Project Page](https://showlab.github.io/Impossible-Videos/)

### Abstract

Synthetic videos nowadays is widely used to complement data scarcity and
diversity of real-world videos. Current synthetic datasets primarily replicate
real-world scenarios, leaving impossible, counterfactual and anti-reality video
concepts underexplored. This work aims to answer two questions: 1) Can today's
video generation models effectively follow prompts to create impossible video
content? 2) Are today's video understanding models good enough for
understanding impossible videos? To this end, we introduce IPV-Bench, a novel
benchmark designed to evaluate and foster progress in video understanding and
generation. IPV-Bench is underpinned by a comprehensive taxonomy, encompassing
4 domains, 14 categories. It features diverse scenes that defy physical,
biological, geographical, or social laws. Based on the taxonomy, a prompt suite
is constructed to evaluate video generation models, challenging their prompt
following and creativity capabilities. In addition, a video benchmark is
curated to assess Video-LLMs on their ability of understanding impossible
videos, which particularly requires reasoning on temporal dynamics and world
knowledge. Comprehensive evaluations reveal limitations and insights for future
directions of video models, paving the way for next-generation video models.

---

## 4. [Creation-MMBench: Assessing Context-Aware Creative Intelligence in MLLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14478)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14478](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14478)

**Organization**: OpenCompass

**Authors**: Xinyu Fang, Zhijian Chen, Kai Lan, Shengyuan Ding, Yingji Liang, Xiangyu Zhao, Farong Wen, Zicheng Zhang, Guofeng Zhang, Haodong Duan, Kai Chen, Dahua Lin

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Xinyu Fang

**Upvotes**: 48

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/open-compass/Creation-MMBench) | [Project Page](https://open-compass.github.io/Creation-MMBench/)

### Abstract

Creativity is a fundamental aspect of intelligence, involving the ability to
generate novel and appropriate solutions across diverse contexts. While Large
Language Models (LLMs) have been extensively evaluated for their creative
capabilities, the assessment of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) in
this domain remains largely unexplored. To address this gap, we introduce
Creation-MMBench, a multimodal benchmark specifically designed to evaluate the
creative capabilities of MLLMs in real-world, image-based tasks. The benchmark
comprises 765 test cases spanning 51 fine-grained tasks. To ensure rigorous
evaluation, we define instance-specific evaluation criteria for each test case,
guiding the assessment of both general response quality and factual consistency
with visual inputs. Experimental results reveal that current open-source MLLMs
significantly underperform compared to proprietary models in creative tasks.
Furthermore, our analysis demonstrates that visual fine-tuning can negatively
impact the base LLM's creative abilities. Creation-MMBench provides valuable
insights for advancing MLLM creativity and establishes a foundation for future
improvements in multimodal generative intelligence. Full data and evaluation
code is released on https://github.com/open-compass/Creation-MMBench.

---

## 5. [DeepPerception: Advancing R1-like Cognitive Visual Perception in MLLMs
  for Knowledge-Intensive Visual Grounding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.12797)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.12797](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.12797)

**Authors**: Xinyu Ma, Ziyang Ding, Zhicong Luo, Chi Chen, Zonghao Guo, Derek F. Wong, Xiaoyi Feng, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2025-03-17 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Chi Chen

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thunlp/DeepPerception) | [Project Page](https://deepperception-kvg.github.io)

### Abstract

Human experts excel at fine-grained visual discrimination by leveraging
domain knowledge to refine perceptual features, a capability that remains
underdeveloped in current Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs). Despite
possessing vast expert-level knowledge, MLLMs struggle to integrate reasoning
into visual perception, often generating direct responses without deeper
analysis. To bridge this gap, we introduce knowledge-intensive visual grounding
(KVG), a novel visual grounding task that requires both fine-grained perception
and domain-specific knowledge integration. To address the challenges of KVG, we
propose DeepPerception, an MLLM enhanced with cognitive visual perception
capabilities. Our approach consists of (1) an automated data synthesis pipeline
that generates high-quality, knowledge-aligned training samples, and (2) a
two-stage training framework combining supervised fine-tuning for cognitive
reasoning scaffolding and reinforcement learning to optimize
perception-cognition synergy. To benchmark performance, we introduce KVG-Bench
a comprehensive dataset spanning 10 domains with 1.3K manually curated test
cases. Experimental results demonstrate that DeepPerception significantly
outperforms direct fine-tuning, achieving +8.08\% accuracy improvements on
KVG-Bench and exhibiting +4.60\% superior cross-domain generalization over
baseline approaches. Our findings highlight the importance of integrating
cognitive processes into MLLMs for human-like visual perception and open new
directions for multimodal reasoning research. The data, codes, and models are
released at https://github.com/thunlp/DeepPerception.

---

## 6. [Infinite Mobility: Scalable High-Fidelity Synthesis of Articulated
  Objects via Procedural Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.13424)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.13424](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.13424)

**Authors**: Xinyu Lian, Zichao Yu, Ruiming Liang, Yitong Wang, Li Ray Luo, Kaixu Chen, Yuanzhen Zhou, Qihong Tang, Xudong Xu, Zhaoyang Lyu, Bo Dai, Jiangmiao Pang

**Published**: 2025-03-17 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Zhaoyang Lyu

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Intern-Nexus/Infinite-Mobility) | [Project Page](https://infinite-mobility.github.io/)

### Abstract

Large-scale articulated objects with high quality are desperately needed for
multiple tasks related to embodied AI. Most existing methods for creating
articulated objects are either data-driven or simulation based, which are
limited by the scale and quality of the training data or the fidelity and heavy
labour of the simulation. In this paper, we propose Infinite Mobility, a novel
method for synthesizing high-fidelity articulated objects through procedural
generation. User study and quantitative evaluation demonstrate that our method
can produce results that excel current state-of-the-art methods and are
comparable to human-annotated datasets in both physics property and mesh
quality. Furthermore, we show that our synthetic data can be used as training
data for generative models, enabling next-step scaling up. Code is available at
https://github.com/Intern-Nexus/Infinite-Mobility

---

## 7. [AudioX: Diffusion Transformer for Anything-to-Audio Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.10522)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.10522](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.10522)

**Authors**: Zeyue Tian, Yizhu Jin, Zhaoyang Liu, Ruibin Yuan, Xu Tan, Qifeng Chen, Wei Xue, Yike Guo

**Published**: 2025-03-13 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ZeyueT/AudioX) | [Project Page](https://zeyuet.github.io/AudioX/)

### Abstract

Audio and music generation have emerged as crucial tasks in many
applications, yet existing approaches face significant limitations: they
operate in isolation without unified capabilities across modalities, suffer
from scarce high-quality, multi-modal training data, and struggle to
effectively integrate diverse inputs. In this work, we propose AudioX, a
unified Diffusion Transformer model for Anything-to-Audio and Music Generation.
Unlike previous domain-specific models, AudioX can generate both general audio
and music with high quality, while offering flexible natural language control
and seamless processing of various modalities including text, video, image,
music, and audio. Its key innovation is a multi-modal masked training strategy
that masks inputs across modalities and forces the model to learn from masked
inputs, yielding robust and unified cross-modal representations. To address
data scarcity, we curate two comprehensive datasets: vggsound-caps with 190K
audio captions based on the VGGSound dataset, and V2M-caps with 6 million music
captions derived from the V2M dataset. Extensive experiments demonstrate that
AudioX not only matches or outperforms state-of-the-art specialized models, but
also offers remarkable versatility in handling diverse input modalities and
generation tasks within a unified architecture. The code and datasets will be
available at https://zeyuet.github.io/AudioX/

---

## 8. [CapArena: Benchmarking and Analyzing Detailed Image Captioning in the
  LLM Era](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.12329)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.12329](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.12329)

**Authors**: Kanzhi Cheng, Wenpo Song, Jiaxin Fan, Zheng Ma, Qiushi Sun, Fangzhi Xu, Chenyang Yan, Nuo Chen, Jianbing Zhang, Jiajun Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-16 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Kanzhi Cheng

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/njucckevin/CapArena) | [Project Page](https://caparena.github.io/)

### Abstract

Image captioning has been a longstanding challenge in vision-language
research. With the rise of LLMs, modern Vision-Language Models (VLMs) generate
detailed and comprehensive image descriptions. However, benchmarking the
quality of such captions remains unresolved. This paper addresses two key
questions: (1) How well do current VLMs actually perform on image captioning,
particularly compared to humans? We built CapArena, a platform with over 6000
pairwise caption battles and high-quality human preference votes. Our
arena-style evaluation marks a milestone, showing that leading models like
GPT-4o achieve or even surpass human performance, while most open-source models
lag behind. (2) Can automated metrics reliably assess detailed caption quality?
Using human annotations from CapArena, we evaluate traditional and recent
captioning metrics, as well as VLM-as-a-Judge. Our analysis reveals that while
some metrics (e.g., METEOR) show decent caption-level agreement with humans,
their systematic biases lead to inconsistencies in model ranking. In contrast,
VLM-as-a-Judge demonstrates robust discernment at both the caption and model
levels. Building on these insights, we release CapArena-Auto, an accurate and
efficient automated benchmark for detailed captioning, achieving 94.3%
correlation with human rankings at just $4 per test. Data and resources will be
open-sourced at https://caparena.github.io.

---

## 9. [Aligning Multimodal LLM with Human Preference: A Survey](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14504)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14504](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14504)

**Authors**: Tao Yu, Yi-Fan Zhang, Chaoyou Fu, Junkang Wu, Jinda Lu, Kun Wang, Xingyu Lu, Yunhang Shen, Guibin Zhang, Dingjie Song, Yibo Yan, Tianlong Xu, Qingsong Wen, Zhang Zhang, Yan Huang, Liang Wang, Tieniu Tan

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Yi-Fan Zhang

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/BradyFU/Awesome-Multimodal-Large-Language-Models)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) can handle a wide variety of general tasks with
simple prompts, without the need for task-specific training. Multimodal Large
Language Models (MLLMs), built upon LLMs, have demonstrated impressive
potential in tackling complex tasks involving visual, auditory, and textual
data. However, critical issues related to truthfulness, safety, o1-like
reasoning, and alignment with human preference remain insufficiently addressed.
This gap has spurred the emergence of various alignment algorithms, each
targeting different application scenarios and optimization goals. Recent
studies have shown that alignment algorithms are a powerful approach to
resolving the aforementioned challenges. In this paper, we aim to provide a
comprehensive and systematic review of alignment algorithms for MLLMs.
Specifically, we explore four key aspects: (1) the application scenarios
covered by alignment algorithms, including general image understanding,
multi-image, video, and audio, and extended multimodal applications; (2) the
core factors in constructing alignment datasets, including data sources, model
responses, and preference annotations; (3) the benchmarks used to evaluate
alignment algorithms; and (4) a discussion of potential future directions for
the development of alignment algorithms. This work seeks to help researchers
organize current advancements in the field and inspire better alignment
methods. The project page of this paper is available at
https://github.com/BradyFU/Awesome-Multimodal-Large-Language-Models/tree/Alignment.

---

## 10. [Frac-Connections: Fractional Extension of Hyper-Connections](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14125)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14125](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14125)

**Authors**: Defa Zhu, Hongzhi Huang, Jundong Zhou, Zihao Huang, Yutao Zeng, Banggu Wu, Qiyang Min, Xun Zhou

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Defa Zhu

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Residual connections are central to modern deep learning architectures,
enabling the training of very deep networks by mitigating gradient vanishing.
Hyper-Connections recently generalized residual connections by introducing
multiple connection strengths at different depths, thereby addressing the
seesaw effect between gradient vanishing and representation collapse. However,
Hyper-Connections increase memory access costs by expanding the width of hidden
states. In this paper, we propose Frac-Connections, a novel approach that
divides hidden states into multiple parts rather than expanding their width.
Frac-Connections retain partial benefits of Hyper-Connections while reducing
memory consumption. To validate their effectiveness, we conduct large-scale
experiments on language tasks, with the largest being a 7B MoE model trained on
up to 3T tokens, demonstrating that Frac-Connections significantly outperform
residual connections.

---

## 11. [Cosmos-Transfer1: Conditional World Generation with Adaptive Multimodal
  Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14492)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14492](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14492)

**Authors**: NVIDIA, Hassan Abu Alhaija, Jose Alvarez, Maciej Bala, Tiffany Cai, Tianshi Cao, Liz Cha, Joshua Chen, Mike Chen, Francesco Ferroni, Sanja Fidler, Dieter Fox, Yunhao Ge, Jinwei Gu, Ali Hassani, Michael Isaev, Pooya Jannaty, Shiyi Lan, Tobias Lasser, Huan Ling, Ming-Yu Liu, Xian Liu, Yifan Lu, Alice Luo, Qianli Ma, Hanzi Mao, Fabio Ramos, Xuanchi Ren, Tianchang Shen, Shitao Tang, Ting-Chun Wang, Jay Wu, Jiashu Xu, Stella Xu, Kevin Xie, Yuchong Ye, Xiaodong Yang, Xiaohui Zeng, Yu Zeng

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nvidia-cosmos/cosmos-transfer1)

### Abstract

We introduce Cosmos-Transfer, a conditional world generation model that can
generate world simulations based on multiple spatial control inputs of various
modalities such as segmentation, depth, and edge. In the design, the spatial
conditional scheme is adaptive and customizable. It allows weighting different
conditional inputs differently at different spatial locations. This enables
highly controllable world generation and finds use in various world-to-world
transfer use cases, including Sim2Real. We conduct extensive evaluations to
analyze the proposed model and demonstrate its applications for Physical AI,
including robotics Sim2Real and autonomous vehicle data enrichment. We further
demonstrate an inference scaling strategy to achieve real-time world generation
with an NVIDIA GB200 NVL72 rack. To help accelerate research development in the
field, we open-source our models and code at
https://github.com/nvidia-cosmos/cosmos-transfer1.

---

## 12. [Measuring AI Ability to Complete Long Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14499)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14499](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14499)

**Authors**: Thomas Kwa, Ben West, Joel Becker, Amy Deng, Katharyn Garcia, Max Hasin, Sami Jawhar, Megan Kinniment, Nate Rush, Sydney Von Arx, Ryan Bloom, Thomas Broadley, Haoxing Du, Brian Goodrich, Nikola Jurkovic, Luke Harold Miles, Seraphina Nix, Tao Lin, Neev Parikh, David Rein, Lucas Jun Koba Sato, Hjalmar Wijk, Daniel M. Ziegler, Elizabeth Barnes, Lawrence Chan

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/METR/eval-analysis-public)

### Abstract

Despite rapid progress on AI benchmarks, the real-world meaning of benchmark
performance remains unclear. To quantify the capabilities of AI systems in
terms of human capabilities, we propose a new metric: 50%-task-completion time
horizon. This is the time humans typically take to complete tasks that AI
models can complete with 50% success rate. We first timed humans with relevant
domain expertise on a combination of RE-Bench, HCAST, and 66 novel shorter
tasks. On these tasks, current frontier AI models such as Claude 3.7 Sonnet
have a 50% time horizon of around 50 minutes. Furthermore, frontier AI time
horizon has been doubling approximately every seven months since 2019, though
the trend may have accelerated in 2024. The increase in AI models' time
horizons seems to be primarily driven by greater reliability and ability to
adapt to mistakes, combined with better logical reasoning and tool use
capabilities. We discuss the limitations of our results -- including their
degree of external validity -- and the implications of increased autonomy for
dangerous capabilities. If these results generalize to real-world software
tasks, extrapolation of this trend predicts that within 5 years, AI systems
will be capable of automating many software tasks that currently take humans a
month.

---

## 13. [FlexWorld: Progressively Expanding 3D Scenes for Flexiable-View
  Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.13265)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.13265](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.13265)

**Authors**: Luxi Chen, Zihan Zhou, Min Zhao, Yikai Wang, Ge Zhang, Wenhao Huang, Hao Sun, Ji-Rong Wen, Chongxuan Li

**Published**: 2025-03-17 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Ge Zhang

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ML-GSAI/FlexWorld) | [Project Page](https://ml-gsai.github.io/FlexWorld/)

### Abstract

Generating flexible-view 3D scenes, including 360{\deg} rotation and zooming,
from single images is challenging due to a lack of 3D data. To this end, we
introduce FlexWorld, a novel framework consisting of two key components: (1) a
strong video-to-video (V2V) diffusion model to generate high-quality novel view
images from incomplete input rendered from a coarse scene, and (2) a
progressive expansion process to construct a complete 3D scene. In particular,
leveraging an advanced pre-trained video model and accurate depth-estimated
training pairs, our V2V model can generate novel views under large camera pose
variations. Building upon it, FlexWorld progressively generates new 3D content
and integrates it into the global scene through geometry-aware scene fusion.
Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of FlexWorld in generating
high-quality novel view videos and flexible-view 3D scenes from single images,
achieving superior visual quality under multiple popular metrics and datasets
compared to existing state-of-the-art methods. Qualitatively, we highlight that
FlexWorld can generate high-fidelity scenes with flexible views like 360{\deg}
rotations and zooming. Project page: https://ml-gsai.github.io/FlexWorld.

---

## 14. [Atlas: Multi-Scale Attention Improves Long Context Image Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.12355)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.12355](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.12355)

**Authors**: Kumar Krishna Agrawal, Long Lian, Longchao Liu, Natalia Harguindeguy, Boyi Li, Alexander Bick, Maggie Chung, Trevor Darrell, Adam Yala

**Published**: 2025-03-16 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Kumar Krishna Agrawal

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/YalaLab/atlas)

### Abstract

Efficiently modeling massive images is a long-standing challenge in machine
learning. To this end, we introduce Multi-Scale Attention (MSA). MSA relies on
two key ideas, (i) multi-scale representations (ii) bi-directional cross-scale
communication. MSA creates O(log N) scales to represent the image across
progressively coarser features and leverages cross-attention to propagate
information across scales. We then introduce Atlas, a novel neural network
architecture based on MSA. We demonstrate that Atlas significantly improves the
compute-performance tradeoff of long-context image modeling in a
high-resolution variant of ImageNet 100. At 1024px resolution, Atlas-B achieves
91.04% accuracy, comparable to ConvNext-B (91.92%) while being 4.3x faster.
Atlas is 2.95x faster and 7.38% better than FasterViT, 2.25x faster and 4.96%
better than LongViT. In comparisons against MambaVision-S, we find Atlas-S
achieves 5%, 16% and 32% higher accuracy at 1024px, 2048px and 4096px
respectively, while obtaining similar runtimes. Code for reproducing our
experiments and pretrained models is available at
https://github.com/yalalab/atlas.

---

## 15. [Temporal Consistency for LLM Reasoning Process Error Identification](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14495)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14495](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14495)

**Authors**: Jiacheng Guo, Yue Wu, Jiahao Qiu, Kaixuan Huang, Xinzhe Juan, Ling Yang, Mengdi Wang

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Ling Yang

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jcguo123/temporal-consistency)

### Abstract

Verification is crucial for effective mathematical reasoning. We present a
new temporal consistency method where verifiers iteratively refine their
judgments based on the previous assessment. Unlike one-round verification or
multi-model debate approaches, our method leverages consistency in a sequence
of self-reflection actions to improve verification accuracy. Empirical
evaluations across diverse mathematical process error identification benchmarks
(Mathcheck, ProcessBench, and PRM800K) show consistent performance improvements
over baseline methods. When applied to the recent DeepSeek R1 distilled models,
our method demonstrates strong performance, enabling 7B/8B distilled models to
outperform all 70B/72B models and GPT-4o on ProcessBench. Notably, the
distilled 14B model with our method achieves performance comparable to
Deepseek-R1. Our codes are available at
https://github.com/jcguo123/Temporal-Consistency

---

## 16. [MPBench: A Comprehensive Multimodal Reasoning Benchmark for Process
  Errors Identification](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.12505)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.12505](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.12505)

**Authors**: Zhaopan Xu, Pengfei Zhou, Jiaxin Ai, Wangbo Zhao, Kai Wang, Xiaojiang Peng, Wenqi Shao, Hongxun Yao, Kaipeng Zhang

**Published**: 2025-03-16 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by kaipeng

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [Project Page](https://mpbench.github.io/)

### Abstract

Reasoning is an essential capacity for large language models (LLMs) to
address complex tasks, where the identification of process errors is vital for
improving this ability. Recently, process-level reward models (PRMs) were
proposed to provide step-wise rewards that facilitate reinforcement learning
and data production during training and guide LLMs toward correct steps during
inference, thereby improving reasoning accuracy. However, existing benchmarks
of PRMs are text-based and focus on error detection, neglecting other scenarios
like reasoning search. To address this gap, we introduce MPBench, a
comprehensive, multi-task, multimodal benchmark designed to systematically
assess the effectiveness of PRMs in diverse scenarios. MPBench employs three
evaluation paradigms, each targeting a specific role of PRMs in the reasoning
process: (1) Step Correctness, which assesses the correctness of each
intermediate reasoning step; (2) Answer Aggregation, which aggregates multiple
solutions and selects the best one; and (3) Reasoning Process Search, which
guides the search for optimal reasoning steps during inference. Through these
paradigms, MPBench makes comprehensive evaluations and provides insights into
the development of multimodal PRMs.

---

## 17. [Concat-ID: Towards Universal Identity-Preserving Video Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14151)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14151](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14151)

**Authors**: Yong Zhong, Zhuoyi Yang, Jiayan Teng, Xiaotao Gu, Chongxuan Li

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by YSH

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ML-GSAI/Concat-ID) | [Project Page](https://ml-gsai.github.io/Concat-ID-demo/)

### Abstract

We present Concat-ID, a unified framework for identity-preserving video
generation. Concat-ID employs Variational Autoencoders to extract image
features, which are concatenated with video latents along the sequence
dimension, leveraging solely 3D self-attention mechanisms without the need for
additional modules. A novel cross-video pairing strategy and a multi-stage
training regimen are introduced to balance identity consistency and facial
editability while enhancing video naturalness. Extensive experiments
demonstrate Concat-ID's superiority over existing methods in both single and
multi-identity generation, as well as its seamless scalability to multi-subject
scenarios, including virtual try-on and background-controllable generation.
Concat-ID establishes a new benchmark for identity-preserving video synthesis,
providing a versatile and scalable solution for a wide range of applications.

---

## 18. [Reflect-DiT: Inference-Time Scaling for Text-to-Image Diffusion
  Transformers via In-Context Reflection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.12271)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.12271](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.12271)

**Authors**: Shufan Li, Konstantinos Kallidromitis, Akash Gokul, Arsh Koneru, Yusuke Kato, Kazuki Kozuka, Aditya Grover

**Published**: 2025-03-15 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Shufan Li

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jacklishufan/Reflect-DiT)

### Abstract

The predominant approach to advancing text-to-image generation has been
training-time scaling, where larger models are trained on more data using
greater computational resources. While effective, this approach is
computationally expensive, leading to growing interest in inference-time
scaling to improve performance. Currently, inference-time scaling for
text-to-image diffusion models is largely limited to best-of-N sampling, where
multiple images are generated per prompt and a selection model chooses the best
output. Inspired by the recent success of reasoning models like DeepSeek-R1 in
the language domain, we introduce an alternative to naive best-of-N sampling by
equipping text-to-image Diffusion Transformers with in-context reflection
capabilities. We propose Reflect-DiT, a method that enables Diffusion
Transformers to refine their generations using in-context examples of
previously generated images alongside textual feedback describing necessary
improvements. Instead of passively relying on random sampling and hoping for a
better result in a future generation, Reflect-DiT explicitly tailors its
generations to address specific aspects requiring enhancement. Experimental
results demonstrate that Reflect-DiT improves performance on the GenEval
benchmark (+0.19) using SANA-1.0-1.6B as a base model. Additionally, it
achieves a new state-of-the-art score of 0.81 on GenEval while generating only
20 samples per prompt, surpassing the previous best score of 0.80, which was
obtained using a significantly larger model (SANA-1.5-4.8B) with 2048 samples
under the best-of-N approach.

---

## 19. [Florenz: Scaling Laws for Systematic Generalization in Vision-Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.09443)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.09443](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.09443)

**Authors**: Julian Spravil, Sebastian Houben, Sven Behnke

**Published**: 2025-03-12 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Julian Spravil

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/spravil/caption-via-translation) | [Project Page](https://spravil.com/projects/caption_via_translation/)

### Abstract

Cross-lingual transfer enables vision-language models (VLMs) to perform
vision tasks in various languages with training data only in one language.
Current approaches rely on large pre-trained multilingual language models.
However, they face the curse of multilinguality, sacrificing downstream task
performance for multilingual capabilities, struggling with lexical ambiguities,
and falling behind recent advances. In this work, we study the scaling laws of
systematic generalization with monolingual VLMs for multilingual tasks,
focusing on the impact of model size and seen training samples. We propose
Florenz, a monolingual encoder-decoder VLM with 0.4B to 11.2B parameters
combining the pre-trained VLM Florence-2 and the large language model Gemma-2.
Florenz is trained with varying compute budgets on a synthetic dataset that
features intentionally incomplete language coverage for image captioning, thus,
testing generalization from the fully covered translation task. We show that
not only does indirectly learning unseen task-language pairs adhere to a
scaling law, but also that with our data generation pipeline and the proposed
Florenz model family, image captioning abilities can emerge in a specific
language even when only data for the translation task is available. Fine-tuning
on a mix of downstream datasets yields competitive performance and demonstrates
promising scaling trends in multimodal machine translation (Multi30K, CoMMuTE),
lexical disambiguation (CoMMuTE), and image captioning (Multi30K, XM3600, COCO
Karpathy).

---

## 20. [MM-Spatial: Exploring 3D Spatial Understanding in Multimodal LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.13111)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.13111](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.13111)

**Authors**: Erik Daxberger, Nina Wenzel, David Griffiths, Haiming Gang, Justin Lazarow, Gefen Kohavi, Kai Kang, Marcin Eichner, Yinfei Yang, Afshin Dehghan, Peter Grasch

**Published**: 2025-03-17 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Erik Daxberger

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/apple/ml-cubifyanything) | [Project Page](https://github.com/apple/ml-cubifyanything)

### Abstract

Multimodal large language models (MLLMs) excel at 2D visual understanding but
remain limited in their ability to reason about 3D space. In this work, we
leverage large-scale high-quality 3D scene data with open-set annotations to
introduce 1) a novel supervised fine-tuning dataset and 2) a new evaluation
benchmark, focused on indoor scenes. Our Cubify Anything VQA (CA-VQA) data
covers diverse spatial tasks including spatial relationship prediction, metric
size and distance estimation, and 3D grounding. We show that CA-VQA enables us
to train MM-Spatial, a strong generalist MLLM that also achieves
state-of-the-art performance on 3D spatial understanding benchmarks, including
our own. We show how incorporating metric depth and multi-view inputs (provided
in CA-VQA) can further improve 3D understanding, and demonstrate that data
alone allows our model to achieve depth perception capabilities comparable to
dedicated monocular depth estimation models. We will publish our SFT dataset
and benchmark.

---

## 21. [PEBench: A Fictitious Dataset to Benchmark Machine Unlearning for
  Multimodal Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.12545)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.12545](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.12545)

**Authors**: Zhaopan Xu, Pengfei Zhou, Weidong Tang, Jiaxin Ai, Wangbo Zhao, Xiaojiang Peng, Kai Wang, Yang You, Wenqi Shao, Hongxun Yao, Kaipeng Zhang

**Published**: 2025-03-16 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by kaipeng

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [Project Page](https://pebench.github.io/)

### Abstract

In recent years, Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have demonstrated
remarkable advancements in tasks such as visual question answering, visual
understanding, and reasoning. However, this impressive progress relies on vast
amounts of data collected from the internet, raising significant concerns about
privacy and security. To address these issues, machine unlearning (MU) has
emerged as a promising solution, enabling the removal of specific knowledge
from an already trained model without requiring retraining from scratch.
Although MU for MLLMs has gained attention, current evaluations of its efficacy
remain incomplete, and the underlying problem is often poorly defined, which
hinders the development of strategies for creating more secure and trustworthy
systems. To bridge this gap, we introduce a benchmark, named PEBench, which
includes a dataset of personal entities and corresponding general event scenes,
designed to comprehensively assess the performance of MU for MLLMs. Through
PEBench, we aim to provide a standardized and robust framework to advance
research in secure and privacy-preserving multimodal models. We benchmarked 6
MU methods, revealing their strengths and limitations, and shedding light on
key challenges and opportunities for MU in MLLMs.

---

## 22. [Towards Self-Improving Systematic Cognition for Next-Generation
  Foundation MLLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.12303)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.12303](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.12303)

**Authors**: Xiaoying Zhang, Da Peng, Yipeng Zhang, Zonghao Guo, Chengyue Wu, Chi Chen, Wei Ke, Helen Meng, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2025-03-16 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by PengDa

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thunlp/SICOG)

### Abstract

Despite their impressive capabilities, Multimodal Large Language Models
(MLLMs) face challenges with fine-grained perception and complex reasoning.
Prevalent multimodal pre-training approaches focus on enhancing perception by
training on high-quality image captions due to the extremely high cost of
collecting chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning data for improving reasoning. While
leveraging advanced MLLMs for caption generation enhances scalability, the
outputs often lack comprehensiveness and accuracy. In this paper, we introduce
Self-Improving cognition (SIcog), a self-learning framework designed to
construct next-generation foundation MLLMs by enhancing their systematic
cognitive capabilities through multimodal pre-training with self-generated
data. Specifically, we propose Chain-of-Description, an approach that improves
an MLLM's systematic perception by enabling step-by-step visual understanding,
ensuring greater comprehensiveness and accuracy. Additionally, we adopt a
structured CoT reasoning technique to enable MLLMs to integrate in-depth
multimodal reasoning. To construct a next-generation foundation MLLM with
self-improved cognition, SIcog first equips an MLLM with systematic perception
and reasoning abilities using minimal external annotations. The enhanced models
then generate detailed captions and CoT reasoning data, which are further
curated through self-consistency. This curated data is ultimately used for
multimodal pre-training to develop next-generation foundation models. Extensive
experiments on both low- and high-resolution MLLMs across diverse benchmarks
demonstrate that, with merely 213K self-generated pre-training samples, SIcog
produces next-generation foundation MLLMs with significantly improved
cognition, achieving benchmark-leading performance compared to prevalent
pre-training approaches.

---

## 23. [EvalTree: Profiling Language Model Weaknesses via Hierarchical
  Capability Trees](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.08893)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.08893](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.08893)

**Authors**: Zhiyuan Zeng, Yizhong Wang, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Pang Wei Koh

**Published**: 2025-03-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Zhiyuan Zeng

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Zhiyuan-Zeng/EvalTree) | [Project Page](https://zhiyuan-zeng.github.io/EvalTree/)

### Abstract

An ideal model evaluation should achieve two goals: identifying where the
model fails and providing actionable improvement guidance. Toward these goals
for Language Model (LM) evaluations, we formulate the problem of generating a
weakness profile, a set of weaknesses expressed in natural language, given an
LM's performance on every individual instance in a benchmark. We introduce a
suite of quantitative assessments to compare different weakness profiling
methods. We also propose a weakness profiling method EvalTree. It constructs a
capability tree where each node represents a capability described in natural
language and is linked to a subset of benchmark instances that specifically
evaluate this capability; it then extracts nodes where the LM performs poorly
to generate a weakness profile. On the MATH and WildChat benchmarks, we show
that EvalTree outperforms baseline weakness profiling methods by identifying
weaknesses more precisely and comprehensively. Weakness profiling further
enables weakness-guided data collection, and training data collection guided by
EvalTree-identified weaknesses improves LM performance more than other data
collection strategies. We also show how EvalTree exposes flaws in Chatbot
Arena's human-voter-based evaluation practice. To facilitate future work, we
release our code and an interface that allows practitioners to interactively
explore the capability trees built by EvalTree.

---

## 24. [Pensez: Less Data, Better Reasoning -- Rethinking French LLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.13661)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.13661](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.13661)

**Authors**: Huy Hoang Ha

**Published**: 2025-03-17 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Hà Huy Hoàng

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in
various natural language processing tasks. However, achieving strong
performance in specialized domains like mathematical reasoning and non-English
languages often requires extensive training on massive datasets. This paper
investigates a contrasting approach: strategic fine-tuning on a small,
high-quality, bilingual (English-French) dataset to enhance both the reasoning
capabilities and French language proficiency of a large language model. Rather
than relying on scale, we explore the hypothesis that targeted data curation
and optimized training can achieve competitive, or even superior, performance.
We demonstrate, through targeted supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on only 2,000
carefully selected samples, significant improvements in mathematical reasoning.
Specifically, Pensez 7B exhibits an increase in accuracy of the base model up
to 20% on the AIME25 and a 12% increase on a French MATH level 5 benchmark.
These results challenge the prevailing assumption that massive datasets are
aprerequisite for strong reasoning performance in LLMs, highlighting the
potential of strategic data curation and optimized fine-tuning for enhancing
both specialized skills and multilingual capabilities. Our findings have
implications for the efficient development of high-performing, multilingual
LLMs, especially in resource-constrained scenarios.

---

## 25. [Learning to Inference Adaptively for Multimodal Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.10905)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.10905](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.10905)

**Authors**: Zhuoyan Xu, Khoi Duc Nguyen, Preeti Mukherjee, Saurabh Bagchi, Somali Chaterji, Yingyu Liang, Yin Li

**Published**: 2025-03-13 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Zhuoyan Xu

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zhuoyan-xu/AdaLLaVA) | [Project Page](https://zhuoyan-xu.github.io/ada-llava/)

### Abstract

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have shown impressive capabilities
in reasoning, yet come with substantial computational cost, limiting their
deployment in resource-constrained settings. Despite recent efforts on
improving the efficiency of MLLMs, prior solutions fall short in responding to
varying runtime conditions, in particular changing resource availability (e.g.,
contention due to the execution of other programs on the device). To bridge
this gap, we introduce AdaLLaVA, an adaptive inference framework that learns to
dynamically reconfigure operations in an MLLM during inference, accounting for
the input data and a latency budget. We conduct extensive experiments across
benchmarks involving question-answering, reasoning, and hallucination. Our
results show that AdaLLaVA effectively adheres to input latency budget,
achieving varying accuracy and latency tradeoffs at runtime. Further, we
demonstrate that AdaLLaVA adapts to both input latency and content, can be
integrated with token selection for enhanced efficiency, and generalizes across
MLLMs. Our project webpage with code release is at
https://zhuoyan-xu.github.io/ada-llava/.

---

## 26. [RoCo-Sim: Enhancing Roadside Collaborative Perception through Foreground
  Simulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.10410)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.10410](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.10410)

**Authors**: Yuwen Du, Anning Hu, Zichen Chao, Yifan Lu, Junhao Ge, Genjia Liu, Weitao Wu, Lanjun Wang, Siheng Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-13 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by yuwendu

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/duyuwen-duen/RoCo-Sim)

### Abstract

Roadside Collaborative Perception refers to a system where multiple roadside
units collaborate to pool their perceptual data, assisting vehicles in
enhancing their environmental awareness. Existing roadside perception methods
concentrate on model design but overlook data issues like calibration errors,
sparse information, and multi-view consistency, leading to poor performance on
recent published datasets. To significantly enhance roadside collaborative
perception and address critical data issues, we present the first simulation
framework RoCo-Sim for road-side collaborative perception. RoCo-Sim is capable
of generating diverse, multi-view consistent simulated roadside data through
dynamic foreground editing and full-scene style transfer of a single image.
RoCo-Sim consists of four components: (1) Camera Extrinsic Optimization ensures
accurate 3D to 2D projection for roadside cameras; (2) A novel Multi-View
Occlusion-Aware Sampler (MOAS) determines the placement of diverse digital
assets within 3D space; (3) DepthSAM innovatively models foreground-background
relationships from single-frame fixed-view images, ensuring multi-view
consistency of foreground; and (4) Scalable Post-Processing Toolkit generates
more realistic and enriched scenes through style transfer and other
enhancements. RoCo-Sim significantly improves roadside 3D object detection,
outperforming SOTA methods by 83.74 on Rcooper-Intersection and 83.12 on
TUMTraf-V2X for AP70. RoCo-Sim fills a critical gap in roadside perception
simulation. Code and pre-trained models will be released soon:
https://github.com/duyuwen-duen/RoCo-Sim

---

## 27. [PyGDA: A Python Library for Graph Domain Adaptation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.10284)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.10284](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.10284)

**Authors**: Zhen Zhang, Meihan Liu, Bingsheng He

**Published**: 2025-03-13 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Zhen Zhang

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pygda-team/pygda) | [Project Page](https://pygda.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)

### Abstract

Graph domain adaptation has emerged as a promising approach to facilitate
knowledge transfer across different domains. Recently, numerous models have
been proposed to enhance their generalization capabilities in this field.
However, there is still no unified library that brings together existing
techniques and simplifies their implementation. To fill this gap, we introduce
PyGDA, an open-source Python library tailored for graph domain adaptation. As
the first comprehensive library in this area, PyGDA covers more than 20 widely
used graph domain adaptation methods together with different types of graph
datasets. Specifically, PyGDA offers modular components, enabling users to
seamlessly build custom models with a variety of commonly used utility
functions. To handle large-scale graphs, PyGDA includes support for features
such as sampling and mini-batch processing, ensuring efficient computation. In
addition, PyGDA also includes comprehensive performance benchmarks and
well-documented user-friendly API for both researchers and practitioners. To
foster convenient accessibility, PyGDA is released under the MIT license at
https://github.com/pygda-team/pygda, and the API documentation is
https://pygda.readthedocs.io/en/stable/.

---

## 28. [MeshFleet: Filtered and Annotated 3D Vehicle Dataset for Domain Specific
  Generative Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14002)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14002](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14002)

**Authors**: Damian Boborzi, Phillip Mueller, Jonas Emrich, Dominik Schmid, Sebastian Mueller, Lars Mikelsons

**Published**: 2025-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Damian Boborzi

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/FeMa42/MeshFleet)

### Abstract

Generative models have recently made remarkable progress in the field of 3D
objects. However, their practical application in fields like engineering
remains limited since they fail to deliver the accuracy, quality, and
controllability needed for domain-specific tasks. Fine-tuning large generative
models is a promising perspective for making these models available in these
fields. Creating high-quality, domain-specific 3D datasets is crucial for
fine-tuning large generative models, yet the data filtering and annotation
process remains a significant bottleneck. We present MeshFleet, a filtered and
annotated 3D vehicle dataset extracted from Objaverse-XL, the most extensive
publicly available collection of 3D objects. Our approach proposes a pipeline
for automated data filtering based on a quality classifier. This classifier is
trained on a manually labeled subset of Objaverse, incorporating DINOv2 and
SigLIP embeddings, refined through caption-based analysis and uncertainty
estimation. We demonstrate the efficacy of our filtering method through a
comparative analysis against caption and image aesthetic score-based techniques
and fine-tuning experiments with SV3D, highlighting the importance of targeted
data selection for domain-specific 3D generative modeling.

---

## 29. [Hyperbolic Safety-Aware Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.12127)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.12127](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.12127)

**Authors**: Tobia Poppi, Tejaswi Kasarla, Pascal Mettes, Lorenzo Baraldi, Rita Cucchiara

**Published**: 2025-03-15 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Tobia Poppi

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aimagelab/hysac)

### Abstract

Addressing the retrieval of unsafe content from vision-language models such
as CLIP is an important step towards real-world integration. Current efforts
have relied on unlearning techniques that try to erase the model's knowledge of
unsafe concepts. While effective in reducing unwanted outputs, unlearning
limits the model's capacity to discern between safe and unsafe content. In this
work, we introduce a novel approach that shifts from unlearning to an awareness
paradigm by leveraging the inherent hierarchical properties of the hyperbolic
space. We propose to encode safe and unsafe content as an entailment hierarchy,
where both are placed in different regions of hyperbolic space. Our HySAC,
Hyperbolic Safety-Aware CLIP, employs entailment loss functions to model the
hierarchical and asymmetrical relations between safe and unsafe image-text
pairs. This modelling, ineffective in standard vision-language models due to
their reliance on Euclidean embeddings, endows the model with awareness of
unsafe content, enabling it to serve as both a multimodal unsafe classifier and
a flexible content retriever, with the option to dynamically redirect unsafe
queries toward safer alternatives or retain the original output. Extensive
experiments show that our approach not only enhances safety recognition but
also establishes a more adaptable and interpretable framework for content
moderation in vision-language models. Our source code is available at
https://github.com/aimagelab/HySAC.

---

## 30. [KUDA: Keypoints to Unify Dynamics Learning and Visual Prompting for
  Open-Vocabulary Robotic Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.10546)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.10546](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.10546)

**Authors**: Zixian Liu, Mingtong Zhang, Yunzhu Li

**Published**: 2025-03-13 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Mingtong Zhang

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/StoreBlank/KUDA) | [Project Page](https://kuda-dynamics.github.io)

### Abstract

With the rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs) and
vision-language models (VLMs), significant progress has been made in developing
open-vocabulary robotic manipulation systems. However, many existing approaches
overlook the importance of object dynamics, limiting their applicability to
more complex, dynamic tasks. In this work, we introduce KUDA, an
open-vocabulary manipulation system that integrates dynamics learning and
visual prompting through keypoints, leveraging both VLMs and learning-based
neural dynamics models. Our key insight is that a keypoint-based target
specification is simultaneously interpretable by VLMs and can be efficiently
translated into cost functions for model-based planning. Given language
instructions and visual observations, KUDA first assigns keypoints to the RGB
image and queries the VLM to generate target specifications. These abstract
keypoint-based representations are then converted into cost functions, which
are optimized using a learned dynamics model to produce robotic trajectories.
We evaluate KUDA on a range of manipulation tasks, including free-form language
instructions across diverse object categories, multi-object interactions, and
deformable or granular objects, demonstrating the effectiveness of our
framework. The project page is available at http://kuda-dynamics.github.io.

---

## 31. [CoLMDriver: LLM-based Negotiation Benefits Cooperative Autonomous
  Driving](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.08683)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.08683](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.08683)

**Authors**: Changxing Liu, Genjia Liu, Zijun Wang, Jinchang Yang, Siheng Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-19 by Changxing Liu

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/cxliu0314/colmdriver)

### Abstract

Vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) cooperative autonomous driving holds great promise
for improving safety by addressing the perception and prediction uncertainties
inherent in single-agent systems. However, traditional cooperative methods are
constrained by rigid collaboration protocols and limited generalization to
unseen interactive scenarios. While LLM-based approaches offer generalized
reasoning capabilities, their challenges in spatial planning and unstable
inference latency hinder their direct application in cooperative driving. To
address these limitations, we propose CoLMDriver, the first full-pipeline
LLM-based cooperative driving system, enabling effective language-based
negotiation and real-time driving control. CoLMDriver features a parallel
driving pipeline with two key components: (i) an LLM-based negotiation module
under an actor-critic paradigm, which continuously refines cooperation policies
through feedback from previous decisions of all vehicles; and (ii) an
intention-guided waypoint generator, which translates negotiation outcomes into
executable waypoints. Additionally, we introduce InterDrive, a CARLA-based
simulation benchmark comprising 10 challenging interactive driving scenarios
for evaluating V2V cooperation. Experimental results demonstrate that
CoLMDriver significantly outperforms existing approaches, achieving an 11%
higher success rate across diverse highly interactive V2V driving scenarios.
Code will be released on https://github.com/cxliu0314/CoLMDriver.

---
