# Daily Papers - 2025-03-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-03-10)

Total papers: 24

---

## 1. [RuCCoD: Towards Automated ICD Coding in Russian](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.21263)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.21263](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.21263)

**Authors**: Aleksandr Nesterov, Andrey Sakhovskiy, Ivan Sviridov, Airat Valiev, Vladimir Makharev, Petr Anokhin, Galina Zubkova, Elena Tutubalina

**Published**: 2025-02-28 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Elena Tutubalina

**Upvotes**: 133

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/auto-icd-coding/ruccod)

### Abstract

This study investigates the feasibility of automating clinical coding in
Russian, a language with limited biomedical resources. We present a new dataset
for ICD coding, which includes diagnosis fields from electronic health records
(EHRs) annotated with over 10,000 entities and more than 1,500 unique ICD
codes. This dataset serves as a benchmark for several state-of-the-art models,
including BERT, LLaMA with LoRA, and RAG, with additional experiments examining
transfer learning across domains (from PubMed abstracts to medical diagnosis)
and terminologies (from UMLS concepts to ICD codes). We then apply the
best-performing model to label an in-house EHR dataset containing patient
histories from 2017 to 2021. Our experiments, conducted on a carefully curated
test set, demonstrate that training with the automated predicted codes leads to
a significant improvement in accuracy compared to manually annotated data from
physicians. We believe our findings offer valuable insights into the potential
for automating clinical coding in resource-limited languages like Russian,
which could enhance clinical efficiency and data accuracy in these contexts.

---

## 2. [Unified Reward Model for Multimodal Understanding and Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05236)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05236](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05236)

**Authors**: Yibin Wang, Yuhang Zang, Hao Li, Cheng Jin, Jiaqi Wang

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by SII-Yibin Wang

**Upvotes**: 124

**Links**: [Project Page](https://codegoat24.github.io/UnifiedReward/)

### Abstract

Recent advances in human preference alignment have significantly enhanced
multimodal generation and understanding. A key approach is training reward
models to guide preference optimization. However, existing models are often
task-specific, limiting their adaptability across diverse visual applications.
We also argue that jointly learning to assess multiple tasks may foster a
synergistic effect, where improved image understanding enhances image
generation assessment, and refined image evaluation benefits video assessment
through better frame analysis. To this end, this paper proposes UnifiedReward,
the first unified reward model for multimodal understanding and generation
assessment, enabling both pairwise ranking and pointwise scoring, which can be
employed for vision model preference alignment. Specifically, (1) we first
develop UnifiedReward on our constructed large-scale human preference dataset,
including both image and video generation/understanding tasks. (2) Then, it is
utilized to automatically construct high-quality preference pair data based on
the vision models, fine-gradually filtering their outputs through pair ranking
and point sifting. (3) Finally, these data are used for their preference
alignment through Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). Experimental results
demonstrate that joint learning to assess diverse visual tasks can lead to
substantial mutual benefits and we apply our pipeline to both image and video
understanding/generation tasks, significantly improving the performance in each
domain.

---

## 3. [EuroBERT: Scaling Multilingual Encoders for European Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05500)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05500](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05500)

**Authors**: Nicolas Boizard, Hippolyte Gisserot-Boukhlef, Duarte M. Alves, André Martins, Ayoub Hammal, Caio Corro, Céline Hudelot, Emmanuel Malherbe, Etienne Malaboeuf, Fanny Jourdan, Gabriel Hautreux, João Alves, Kevin El-Haddad, Manuel Faysse, Maxime Peyrard, Nuno M. Guerreiro, Patrick Fernandes, Ricardo Rei, Pierre Colombo

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Nicolas-BZRD

**Upvotes**: 81

**Links**: [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/EuroBERT)

### Abstract

General-purpose multilingual vector representations, used in retrieval,
regression and classification, are traditionally obtained from bidirectional
encoder models. Despite their wide applicability, encoders have been recently
overshadowed by advances in generative decoder-only models. However, many
innovations driving this progress are not inherently tied to decoders. In this
paper, we revisit the development of multilingual encoders through the lens of
these advances, and introduce EuroBERT, a family of multilingual encoders
covering European and widely spoken global languages. Our models outperform
existing alternatives across a diverse range of tasks, spanning multilingual
capabilities, mathematics, and coding, and natively supporting sequences of up
to 8,192 tokens. We also examine the design decisions behind EuroBERT, offering
insights into our dataset composition and training pipeline. We publicly
release the EuroBERT models, including intermediate training checkpoints,
together with our training framework.

---

## 4. [R1-Zero's "Aha Moment" in Visual Reasoning on a 2B Non-SFT Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05132)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05132](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05132)

**Authors**: Hengguang Zhou, Xirui Li, Ruochen Wang, Minhao Cheng, Tianyi Zhou, Cho-Jui Hsieh

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 57

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/turningpoint-ai/VisualThinker-R1-Zero) | [Project Page](https://turningpointai.notion.site/the-multimodal-aha-moment-on-2b-model)

### Abstract

Recently DeepSeek R1 demonstrated how reinforcement learning with simple
rule-based incentives can enable autonomous development of complex reasoning in
large language models, characterized by the "aha moment", in which the model
manifest self-reflection and increased response length during training.
However, attempts to extend this success to multimodal reasoning often failed
to reproduce these key characteristics. In this report, we present the first
successful replication of these emergent characteristics for multimodal
reasoning on only a non-SFT 2B model. Starting with Qwen2-VL-2B and applying
reinforcement learning directly on the SAT dataset, our model achieves 59.47%
accuracy on CVBench, outperforming the base model by approximately ~30% and
exceeding both SFT setting by ~2%. In addition, we share our failed attempts
and insights in attempting to achieve R1-like reasoning using RL with instruct
models. aiming to shed light on the challenges involved. Our key observations
include: (1) applying RL on instruct model often results in trivial reasoning
trajectories, and (2) naive length reward are ineffective in eliciting
reasoning capabilities. The project code is available at
https://github.com/turningpoint-ai/VisualThinker-R1-Zero

---

## 5. [S2S-Arena, Evaluating Speech2Speech Protocols on Instruction Following
  with Paralinguistic Information](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05085)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05085](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05085)

**Authors**: Feng Jiang, Zhiyu Lin, Fan Bu, Yuhao Du, Benyou Wang, Haizhou Li

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by feng jiang

**Upvotes**: 47

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/FreedomIntelligence/S2S-Arena) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/spaces/FreedomIntelligence/S2S-Arena)

### Abstract

The rapid development of large language models (LLMs) has brought significant
attention to speech models, particularly recent progress in speech2speech
protocols supporting speech input and output. However, the existing benchmarks
adopt automatic text-based evaluators for evaluating the instruction following
ability of these models lack consideration for paralinguistic information in
both speech understanding and generation. To address these issues, we introduce
S2S-Arena, a novel arena-style S2S benchmark that evaluates
instruction-following capabilities with paralinguistic information in both
speech-in and speech-out across real-world tasks. We design 154 samples that
fused TTS and live recordings in four domains with 21 tasks and manually
evaluate existing popular speech models in an arena-style manner. The
experimental results show that: (1) in addition to the superior performance of
GPT-4o, the speech model of cascaded ASR, LLM, and TTS outperforms the jointly
trained model after text-speech alignment in speech2speech protocols; (2)
considering paralinguistic information, the knowledgeability of the speech
model mainly depends on the LLM backbone, and the multilingual support of that
is limited by the speech module; (3) excellent speech models can already
understand the paralinguistic information in speech input, but generating
appropriate audio with paralinguistic information is still a challenge.

---

## 6. [Sketch-of-Thought: Efficient LLM Reasoning with Adaptive
  Cognitive-Inspired Sketching](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05179)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05179](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05179)

**Authors**: Simon A. Aytes, Jinheon Baek, Sung Ju Hwang

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Jinheon Baek

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SimonAytes/SoT) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/saytes/SoT_DistilBERT)

### Abstract

Recent advances in large language models have demonstrated remarkable
reasoning capabilities through Chain of Thought (CoT) prompting, but often at
the cost of excessive verbosity in their intermediate outputs, which increases
computational overhead. We introduce Sketch-of-Thought (SoT), a novel prompting
framework that combines cognitive-inspired reasoning paradigms with linguistic
constraints to minimize token usage while preserving reasoning accuracy. SoT is
designed as a flexible framework that can incorporate any custom reasoning
paradigms based on cognitive science, and we instantiate it with three such
paradigms - Conceptual Chaining, Chunked Symbolism, and Expert Lexicons - each
tailored to different reasoning tasks and selected dynamically via a
lightweight routing model. Through comprehensive evaluation across 15 reasoning
datasets with multiple languages and multimodal scenarios, we demonstrate that
SoT achieves token reductions of 76% with negligible accuracy impact. In
certain domains like mathematical and multi-hop reasoning, it even improves
accuracy while using significantly fewer tokens. Our code is publicly
available: https://www.github.com/SimonAytes/SoT.

---

## 7. [R1-Omni: Explainable Omni-Multimodal Emotion Recognition with
  Reinforcing Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05379)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05379](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05379)

**Authors**: Jiaxing Zhao, Xihan Wei, Liefeng Bo

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/HumanMLLM/R1-Omni) | [Project Page](https://github.com/HumanMLLM/R1-Omni)

### Abstract

In this work, we present the first application of Reinforcement Learning with
Verifiable Reward (RLVR) to an Omni-multimodal large language model in the
context of emotion recognition, a task where both visual and audio modalities
play crucial roles. We leverage RLVR to optimize the Omni model, significantly
enhancing its performance in three key aspects: reasoning capability, emotion
recognition accuracy, and generalization ability. The introduction of RLVR not
only improves the model's overall performance on in-distribution data but also
demonstrates superior robustness when evaluated on out-of-distribution
datasets. More importantly, the improved reasoning capability enables clear
analysis of the contributions of different modalities, particularly visual and
audio information, in the emotion recognition process. This provides valuable
insights into the optimization of multimodal large language models.

---

## 8. [Forgetting Transformer: Softmax Attention with a Forget Gate](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.02130)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.02130](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02130)

**Authors**: Zhixuan Lin, Evgenii Nikishin, Xu Owen He, Aaron Courville

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Zhixuan Lin

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zhixuan-lin/forgetting-transformer)

### Abstract

An essential component of modern recurrent sequence models is the forget
gate. While Transformers do not have an explicit recurrent form, we show that a
forget gate can be naturally incorporated into Transformers by down-weighting
the unnormalized attention scores in a data-dependent way. We name this
attention mechanism the Forgetting Attention and the resulting model the
Forgetting Transformer (FoX). We show that FoX outperforms the Transformer on
long-context language modeling, length extrapolation, and short-context
downstream tasks, while performing on par with the Transformer on long-context
downstream tasks. Moreover, it is compatible with the FlashAttention algorithm
and does not require any positional embeddings. Several analyses, including the
needle-in-the-haystack test, show that FoX also retains the Transformer's
superior long-context capabilities over recurrent sequence models such as
Mamba-2, HGRN2, and DeltaNet. We also introduce a "Pro" block design that
incorporates some common architectural components in recurrent sequence models
and find it significantly improves the performance of both FoX and the
Transformer. Our code is available at
https://github.com/zhixuan-lin/forgetting-transformer.

---

## 9. [R1-Searcher: Incentivizing the Search Capability in LLMs via
  Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05592)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05592](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05592)

**Authors**: Huatong Song, Jinhao Jiang, Yingqian Min, Jie Chen, Zhipeng Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Lei Fang, Ji-Rong Wen

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

Existing Large Reasoning Models (LRMs) have shown the potential of
reinforcement learning (RL) to enhance the complex reasoning capabilities of
Large Language Models~(LLMs). While they achieve remarkable performance on
challenging tasks such as mathematics and coding, they often rely on their
internal knowledge to solve problems, which can be inadequate for
time-sensitive or knowledge-intensive questions, leading to inaccuracies and
hallucinations. To address this, we propose R1-Searcher, a novel
two-stage outcome-based RL approach designed to enhance the search capabilities
of LLMs. This method allows LLMs to autonomously invoke external search systems
to access additional knowledge during the reasoning process. Our framework
relies exclusively on RL, without requiring process rewards or distillation for
a cold start. % effectively generalizing to out-of-domain datasets and
supporting both Base and Instruct models. Our experiments demonstrate that our
method significantly outperforms previous strong RAG methods, even when
compared to the closed-source GPT-4o-mini.

---

## 10. [VideoPainter: Any-length Video Inpainting and Editing with Plug-and-Play
  Context Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05639)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05639](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05639)

**Authors**: Yuxuan Bian, Zhaoyang Zhang, Xuan Ju, Mingdeng Cao, Liangbin Xie, Ying Shan, Qiang Xu

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Yuxuan BIAN

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/TencentARC/VideoPainter) | [Project Page](https://yxbian23.github.io/project/video-painter/)

### Abstract

Video inpainting, which aims to restore corrupted video content, has
experienced substantial progress. Despite these advances, existing methods,
whether propagating unmasked region pixels through optical flow and receptive
field priors, or extending image-inpainting models temporally, face challenges
in generating fully masked objects or balancing the competing objectives of
background context preservation and foreground generation in one model,
respectively. To address these limitations, we propose a novel dual-stream
paradigm VideoPainter that incorporates an efficient context encoder
(comprising only 6% of the backbone parameters) to process masked videos and
inject backbone-aware background contextual cues to any pre-trained video DiT,
producing semantically consistent content in a plug-and-play manner. This
architectural separation significantly reduces the model's learning complexity
while enabling nuanced integration of crucial background context. We also
introduce a novel target region ID resampling technique that enables any-length
video inpainting, greatly enhancing our practical applicability. Additionally,
we establish a scalable dataset pipeline leveraging current vision
understanding models, contributing VPData and VPBench to facilitate
segmentation-based inpainting training and assessment, the largest video
inpainting dataset and benchmark to date with over 390K diverse clips. Using
inpainting as a pipeline basis, we also explore downstream applications
including video editing and video editing pair data generation, demonstrating
competitive performance and significant practical potential. Extensive
experiments demonstrate VideoPainter's superior performance in both any-length
video inpainting and editing, across eight key metrics, including video
quality, mask region preservation, and textual coherence.

---

## 11. [SafeArena: Evaluating the Safety of Autonomous Web Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04957)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04957](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04957)

**Authors**: Ada Defne Tur, Nicholas Meade, Xing Han Lù, Alejandra Zambrano, Arkil Patel, Esin Durmus, Spandana Gella, Karolina Stańczak, Siva Reddy

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Xing Han Lù

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/McGill-NLP/safearena) | [Project Page](https://safearena.github.io/)

### Abstract

LLM-based agents are becoming increasingly proficient at solving web-based
tasks. With this capability comes a greater risk of misuse for malicious
purposes, such as posting misinformation in an online forum or selling illicit
substances on a website. To evaluate these risks, we propose SafeArena, the
first benchmark to focus on the deliberate misuse of web agents. SafeArena
comprises 250 safe and 250 harmful tasks across four websites. We classify the
harmful tasks into five harm categories -- misinformation, illegal activity,
harassment, cybercrime, and social bias, designed to assess realistic misuses
of web agents. We evaluate leading LLM-based web agents, including GPT-4o,
Claude-3.5 Sonnet, Qwen-2-VL 72B, and Llama-3.2 90B, on our benchmark. To
systematically assess their susceptibility to harmful tasks, we introduce the
Agent Risk Assessment framework that categorizes agent behavior across four
risk levels. We find agents are surprisingly compliant with malicious requests,
with GPT-4o and Qwen-2 completing 34.7% and 27.3% of harmful requests,
respectively. Our findings highlight the urgent need for safety alignment
procedures for web agents. Our benchmark is available here:
https://safearena.github.io

---

## 12. [TrajectoryCrafter: Redirecting Camera Trajectory for Monocular Videos
  via Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05638)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05638](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05638)

**Authors**: Mark YU, Wenbo Hu, Jinbo Xing, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Wenbo Hu

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/TrajectoryCrafter/TrajectoryCrafter) | [Project Page](https://trajectorycrafter.github.io/)

### Abstract

We present TrajectoryCrafter, a novel approach to redirect camera
trajectories for monocular videos. By disentangling deterministic view
transformations from stochastic content generation, our method achieves precise
control over user-specified camera trajectories. We propose a novel dual-stream
conditional video diffusion model that concurrently integrates point cloud
renders and source videos as conditions, ensuring accurate view transformations
and coherent 4D content generation. Instead of leveraging scarce multi-view
videos, we curate a hybrid training dataset combining web-scale monocular
videos with static multi-view datasets, by our innovative double-reprojection
strategy, significantly fostering robust generalization across diverse scenes.
Extensive evaluations on multi-view and large-scale monocular videos
demonstrate the superior performance of our method.

---

## 13. [Learning from Failures in Multi-Attempt Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04808)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04808](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04808)

**Authors**: Stephen Chung, Wenyu Du, Jie Fu

**Published**: 2025-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/DualityRL/multi-attempt) | [Project Page](https://gossamer-bookcase-8a7.notion.site/Learning-From-Failures-in-Multi-Attempt-Reinforcement-Learning-1a6215521f3a80df9b14d48306a9f7a2)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in reinforcement learning (RL) for large language models
(LLMs), exemplified by DeepSeek R1, have shown that even a simple
question-answering task can substantially improve an LLM's reasoning
capabilities. In this work, we extend this approach by modifying the task into
a multi-attempt setting. Instead of generating a single response per question,
the model is given multiple attempts, with feedback provided after incorrect
responses. The multi-attempt task encourages the model to refine its previous
attempts and improve search efficiency. Experimental results show that even a
small LLM trained on a multi-attempt task achieves significantly higher
accuracy when evaluated with more attempts, improving from 45.6% with 1 attempt
to 52.5% with 2 attempts on the math benchmark. In contrast, the same LLM
trained on a standard single-turn task exhibits only a marginal improvement,
increasing from 42.3% to 43.2% when given more attempts during evaluation. The
results indicate that, compared to the standard single-turn task, an LLM
trained on a multi-attempt task achieves slightly better performance on math
benchmarks while also learning to refine its responses more effectively based
on user feedback. Full code is available at
https://github.com/DualityRL/multi-attempt

---

## 14. [TinyR1-32B-Preview: Boosting Accuracy with Branch-Merge Distillation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04872)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04872](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04872)

**Authors**: Lin Sun, Guangxiang Zhao, Xiaoqi Jian, Yuhan Wu, Weihong Lin, Yongfu Zhu, Change Jia, Linglin Zhang, Jinzhu Wu, Junfeng Ran, Sai-er Hu, Zihan Jiang, Junting Zhou, Wenrui Liu, Bin Cui, Tong Yang, Xiangzheng Zhang

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

The challenge of reducing the size of Large Language Models (LLMs) while
maintaining their performance has gained significant attention. However,
existing methods, such as model distillation and transfer learning, often fail
to achieve high accuracy. To address this limitation, we introduce the
Branch-Merge distillation approach, which enhances model compression through
two phases: (1) the Branch Phase, where knowledge from a large teacher model is
selectively distilled into specialized student models via
domain-specific supervised fine-tuning (SFT); And (2) the Merge Phase, where
these student models are merged to enable cross-domain knowledge transfer and
improve generalization. We validate our distillation approach using DeepSeek-R1
as the teacher and DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B as the student. The resulting
merged model, TinyR1-32B-Preview, outperforms its counterpart
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B across multiple benchmarks, including Mathematics
(+5.5 points), Coding (+4.4 points) and Science (+2.9 points), while achieving
near-equal performance to DeepSeek-R1 on AIME 2024. The Branch-Merge
distillation approach provides a scalable solution for creating smaller,
high-performing LLMs with reduced computational cost and time.

---

## 15. [LoRACode: LoRA Adapters for Code Embeddings](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05315)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05315](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05315)

**Authors**: Saumya Chaturvedi, Aman Chadha, Laurent Bindschaedler

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Aman Chadha

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Code embeddings are essential for semantic code search; however, current
approaches often struggle to capture the precise syntactic and contextual
nuances inherent in code. Open-source models such as CodeBERT and UniXcoder
exhibit limitations in scalability and efficiency, while high-performing
proprietary systems impose substantial computational costs. We introduce a
parameter-efficient fine-tuning method based on Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) to
construct task-specific adapters for code retrieval. Our approach reduces the
number of trainable parameters to less than two percent of the base model,
enabling rapid fine-tuning on extensive code corpora (2 million samples in 25
minutes on two H100 GPUs). Experiments demonstrate an increase of up to 9.1% in
Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR) for Code2Code search, and up to 86.69% for Text2Code
search tasks across multiple programming languages. Distinction in task-wise
and language-wise adaptation helps explore the sensitivity of code retrieval
for syntactical and linguistic variations.

---

## 16. [BEHAVIOR Robot Suite: Streamlining Real-World Whole-Body Manipulation
  for Everyday Household Activities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05652)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05652](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05652)

**Authors**: Yunfan Jiang, Ruohan Zhang, Josiah Wong, Chen Wang, Yanjie Ze, Hang Yin, Cem Gokmen, Shuran Song, Jiajun Wu, Li Fei-Fei

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Yunfan Jiang

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/behavior-robot-suite/brs-algo) | [Project Page](https://behavior-robot-suite.github.io/)

### Abstract

Real-world household tasks present significant challenges for mobile
manipulation robots. An analysis of existing robotics benchmarks reveals that
successful task performance hinges on three key whole-body control
capabilities: bimanual coordination, stable and precise navigation, and
extensive end-effector reachability. Achieving these capabilities requires
careful hardware design, but the resulting system complexity further
complicates visuomotor policy learning. To address these challenges, we
introduce the BEHAVIOR Robot Suite (BRS), a comprehensive framework for
whole-body manipulation in diverse household tasks. Built on a bimanual,
wheeled robot with a 4-DoF torso, BRS integrates a cost-effective whole-body
teleoperation interface for data collection and a novel algorithm for learning
whole-body visuomotor policies. We evaluate BRS on five challenging household
tasks that not only emphasize the three core capabilities but also introduce
additional complexities, such as long-range navigation, interaction with
articulated and deformable objects, and manipulation in confined spaces. We
believe that BRS's integrated robotic embodiment, data collection interface,
and learning framework mark a significant step toward enabling real-world
whole-body manipulation for everyday household tasks. BRS is open-sourced at
https://behavior-robot-suite.github.io/

---

## 17. [An Empirical Study on Eliciting and Improving R1-like Reasoning Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04548)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04548](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04548)

**Authors**: Zhipeng Chen, Yingqian Min, Beichen Zhang, Jie Chen, Jinhao Jiang, Daixuan Cheng, Wayne Xin Zhao, Zheng Liu, Xu Miao, Yang Lu, Lei Fang, Zhongyuan Wang, Ji-Rong Wen

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Yingqian Min

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/RUCAIBox/Slow_Thinking_with_LLMs)

### Abstract

In this report, we present the third technical report on the development of
slow-thinking models as part of the STILL project. As the technical pathway
becomes clearer, scaling RL training has become a central technique for
implementing such reasoning models. We systematically experiment with and
document the effects of various factors influencing RL training, conducting
experiments on both base models and fine-tuned models. Specifically, we
demonstrate that our RL training approach consistently improves the Qwen2.5-32B
base models, enhancing both response length and test accuracy. Furthermore, we
show that even when a model like DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-1.5B has already
achieved a high performance level, it can be further refined through RL
training, reaching an accuracy of 39.33% on AIME 2024. Beyond RL training, we
also explore the use of tool manipulation, finding that it significantly boosts
the reasoning performance of large reasoning models. This approach achieves a
remarkable accuracy of 86.67% with greedy search on AIME 2024, underscoring its
effectiveness in enhancing model capabilities. We release our resources at the
STILL project website: https://github.com/RUCAIBox/Slow_Thinking_with_LLMs.

---

## 18. [ProReflow: Progressive Reflow with Decomposed Velocity](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04824)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04824](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04824)

**Authors**: Lei Ke, Haohang Xu, Xuefei Ning, Yu Li, Jiajun Li, Haoling Li, Yuxuan Lin, Dongsheng Jiang, Yujiu Yang, Linfeng Zhang

**Published**: 2025-03-05 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Haoling Li

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Diffusion models have achieved significant progress in both image and video
generation while still suffering from huge computation costs. As an effective
solution, flow matching aims to reflow the diffusion process of diffusion
models into a straight line for a few-step and even one-step generation.
However, in this paper, we suggest that the original training pipeline of flow
matching is not optimal and introduce two techniques to improve it. Firstly, we
introduce progressive reflow, which progressively reflows the diffusion models
in local timesteps until the whole diffusion progresses, reducing the
difficulty of flow matching. Second, we introduce aligned v-prediction, which
highlights the importance of direction matching in flow matching over magnitude
matching. Experimental results on SDv1.5 and SDXL demonstrate the effectiveness
of our method, for example, conducting on SDv1.5 achieves an FID of 10.70 on
MSCOCO2014 validation set with only 4 sampling steps, close to our teacher
model (32 DDIM steps, FID = 10.05).

---

## 19. [Linear-MoE: Linear Sequence Modeling Meets Mixture-of-Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.05447)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.05447](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05447)

**Authors**: Weigao Sun, Disen Lan, Tong Zhu, Xiaoye Qu, Yu Cheng

**Published**: 2025-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Weigao Sun

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Linear Sequence Modeling (LSM) like linear attention, state space models and
linear RNNs, and Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) have recently emerged as significant
architectural improvements. In this paper, we introduce Linear-MoE, a
production-level system for modeling and training large-scale models that
integrate LSM with MoE. Linear-MoE leverages the advantages of both LSM modules
for linear-complexity sequence modeling and MoE layers for sparsely activation,
aiming to offer high performance with efficient training. The Linear-MoE system
comprises: 1) Modeling subsystem, which provides a unified framework supporting
all instances of LSM. and 2) Training subsystem, which facilitates efficient
training by incorporating various advanced parallelism technologies,
particularly Sequence Parallelism designed for Linear-MoE models. Additionally,
we explore hybrid models that combine Linear-MoE layers with standard
Transformer-MoE layers with its Sequence Parallelism to further enhance model
flexibility and performance. Evaluations on two model series, A0.3B-2B and
A1B-7B, demonstrate Linear-MoE achieves efficiency gains while maintaining
competitive performance on various benchmarks, showcasing its potential as a
next-generation foundational model architecture. Code:
https://github.com/OpenSparseLLMs/Linear-MoE.

---

## 20. [EAGLE-3: Scaling up Inference Acceleration of Large Language Models via
  Training-Time Test](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01840)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01840](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01840)

**Authors**: Yuhui Li, Fangyun Wei, Chao Zhang, Hongyang Zhang

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Hongyang Zhang

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/safeailab/eagle)

### Abstract

The sequential nature of modern LLMs makes them expensive and slow, and
speculative sampling has proven to be an effective solution to this problem.
Methods like EAGLE perform autoregression at the feature level, reusing
top-layer features from the target model to achieve better results than vanilla
speculative sampling. A growing trend in the LLM community is scaling up
training data to improve model intelligence without increasing inference costs.
However, we observe that scaling up data provides limited improvements for
EAGLE. We identify that this limitation arises from EAGLE's feature prediction
constraints. In this paper, we introduce EAGLE-3, which abandons feature
prediction in favor of direct token prediction and replaces reliance on
top-layer features with multi-layer feature fusion via a technique named
training-time test. These improvements significantly enhance performance and
enable the draft model to fully benefit from scaling up training data. Our
experiments include both chat models and reasoning models, evaluated on five
tasks. The results show that EAGLE-3 achieves a speedup ratio up to 6.5x, with
about 1.4x improvement over EAGLE-2. The code is available at
https://github.com/SafeAILab/EAGLE.

---

## 21. [SAGE: A Framework of Precise Retrieval for RAG](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.01713)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.01713](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01713)

**Authors**: Jintao Zhang, Guoliang Li, Jinyang Su

**Published**: 2025-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Jintao Zhang

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has demonstrated significant proficiency
in conducting question-answering (QA) tasks within a specified corpus.
Nonetheless, numerous failure instances of RAG in QA still exist. These
failures are not solely attributable to the limitations of Large Language
Models (LLMs); instead, they predominantly arise from the retrieval of
inaccurate information for LLMs due to two limitations: (1) Current RAG methods
segment the corpus without considering semantics, making it difficult to find
relevant context due to impaired correlation between questions and the
segments. (2) There is a trade-off between missing essential context with fewer
context retrieved and getting irrelevant context with more context retrieved.
  In this paper, we introduce a RAG framework (SAGE), to overcome these
limitations. First, to address the segmentation issue without considering
semantics, we propose to train a semantic segmentation model. This model is
trained to segment the corpus into semantically complete chunks. Second, to
ensure that only the most relevant chunks are retrieved while the irrelevant
ones are ignored, we design a chunk selection algorithm to dynamically select
chunks based on the decreasing speed of the relevance score, leading to a more
relevant selection. Third, to further ensure the precision of the retrieved
chunks, we propose letting LLMs assess whether retrieved chunks are excessive
or lacking and then adjust the amount of context accordingly. Experiments show
that SAGE outperforms baselines by 61.25% in the quality of QA on average.
Moreover, by avoiding retrieving noisy context, SAGE lowers the cost of the
tokens consumed in LLM inference and achieves a 49.41% enhancement in cost
efficiency on average. Additionally, our work offers valuable insights for
boosting RAG.

---

## 22. [LONGCODEU: Benchmarking Long-Context Language Models on Long Code
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04359)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04359](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04359)

**Authors**: Jia Li, Xuyuan Guo, Lei Li, Kechi Zhang, Ge Li, Jia Li, Zhengwei Tao, Fang Liu, Chongyang Tao, Yuqi Zhu, Zhi Jin

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by Lei Li

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Current advanced long-context language models offer great potential for
real-world software engineering applications. However, progress in this
critical domain remains hampered by a fundamental limitation: the absence of a
rigorous evaluation framework for long code understanding. To gap this
obstacle, we propose a long code understanding benchmark LONGCODEU from four
aspects (8 tasks) to evaluate LCLMs' long code understanding ability required
for practical applications, including code unit perception, intra-code unit
understanding, inter-code unit relation understanding, and long code
documentation understanding. We evaluate 9 popular LCLMs on LONGCODEU (i.e., 6
general models and 3 code models). Our experimental results reveal key
limitations in current LCLMs' capabilities for long code understanding.
Particularly, the performance of LCLMs drops dramatically when the long code
length is greater than 32K, falling far short of their claimed 128K-1M context
windows. In the four aspects, inter-code unit relation understanding is the
most challenging for LCLMs. Our study provides valuable insights for optimizing
LCLMs and driving advancements in software engineering.

---

## 23. [AnyAnomaly: Zero-Shot Customizable Video Anomaly Detection with LVLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.04504)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.04504](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04504)

**Authors**: Sunghyun Ahn, Youngwan Jo, Kijung Lee, Sein Kwon, Inpyo Hong, Sanghyun Park

**Published**: 2025-03-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by SunghyunAhn

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SkiddieAhn/Paper-AnyAnomaly)

### Abstract

Video anomaly detection (VAD) is crucial for video analysis and surveillance
in computer vision. However, existing VAD models rely on learned normal
patterns, which makes them difficult to apply to diverse environments.
Consequently, users should retrain models or develop separate AI models for new
environments, which requires expertise in machine learning, high-performance
hardware, and extensive data collection, limiting the practical usability of
VAD. To address these challenges, this study proposes customizable video
anomaly detection (C-VAD) technique and the AnyAnomaly model. C-VAD considers
user-defined text as an abnormal event and detects frames containing a
specified event in a video. We effectively implemented AnyAnomaly using a
context-aware visual question answering without fine-tuning the large vision
language model. To validate the effectiveness of the proposed model, we
constructed C-VAD datasets and demonstrated the superiority of AnyAnomaly.
Furthermore, our approach showed competitive performance on VAD benchmark
datasets, achieving state-of-the-art results on the UBnormal dataset and
outperforming other methods in generalization across all datasets. Our code is
available online at github.com/SkiddieAhn/Paper-AnyAnomaly.

---

## 24. [Know You First and Be You Better: Modeling Human-Like User Simulators
  via Implicit Profiles](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.18968)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.18968](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18968)

**Authors**: Kuang Wang, Xianfei Li, Shenghao Yang, Li Zhou, Feng Jiang, Haizhou Li

**Published**: 2025-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2025-03-10 by WangKuang

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wangkevin02/USP)

### Abstract

User simulators are crucial for replicating human interactions with dialogue
systems, supporting both collaborative training and automatic evaluation,
especially for large language models (LLMs). However, existing simulators often
rely solely on text utterances, missing implicit user traits such as
personality, speaking style, and goals. In contrast, persona-based methods lack
generalizability, as they depend on predefined profiles of famous individuals
or archetypes. To address these challenges, we propose User Simulator with
implicit Profiles (USP), a framework that infers implicit user profiles from
human-machine conversations and uses them to generate more personalized and
realistic dialogues. We first develop an LLM-driven extractor with a
comprehensive profile schema. Then, we refine the simulation through
conditional supervised fine-tuning and reinforcement learning with cycle
consistency, optimizing it at both the utterance and conversation levels.
Finally, we adopt a diverse profile sampler to capture the distribution of
real-world user profiles. Experimental results demonstrate that USP outperforms
strong baselines in terms of authenticity and diversity while achieving
comparable performance in consistency. Furthermore, dynamic multi-turn
evaluations based on USP strongly align with mainstream benchmarks,
demonstrating its effectiveness in real-world applications.

---
