# Daily Papers - 2025-02-25

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-02-25)

Total papers: 33

---

## 1. [VideoGrain: Modulating Space-Time Attention for Multi-grained Video
  Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.17258)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.17258](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17258)

**Authors**: Xiangpeng Yang, Linchao Zhu, Hehe Fan, Yi Yang

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 79

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/knightyxp/VideoGrain) | [Project Page](https://knightyxp.github.io/VideoGrain_project_page/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in diffusion models have significantly improved video
generation and editing capabilities. However, multi-grained video editing,
which encompasses class-level, instance-level, and part-level modifications,
remains a formidable challenge. The major difficulties in multi-grained editing
include semantic misalignment of text-to-region control and feature coupling
within the diffusion model. To address these difficulties, we present
VideoGrain, a zero-shot approach that modulates space-time (cross- and self-)
attention mechanisms to achieve fine-grained control over video content. We
enhance text-to-region control by amplifying each local prompt's attention to
its corresponding spatial-disentangled region while minimizing interactions
with irrelevant areas in cross-attention. Additionally, we improve feature
separation by increasing intra-region awareness and reducing inter-region
interference in self-attention. Extensive experiments demonstrate our method
achieves state-of-the-art performance in real-world scenarios. Our code, data,
and demos are available at https://knightyxp.github.io/VideoGrain_project_page/

---

## 2. [Thus Spake Long-Context Large Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.17129)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.17129](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17129)

**Authors**: Xiaoran Liu, Ruixiao Li, Mianqiu Huang, Zhigeng Liu, Yuerong Song, Qipeng Guo, Siyang He, Qiqi Wang, Linlin Li, Qun Liu, Yaqian Zhou, Xuanjing Huang, Xipeng Qiu

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Xiaoran Liu (SII)

**Upvotes**: 73

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OpenMOSS/Thus-Spake-Long-Context-LLM)

### Abstract

Long context is an important topic in Natural Language Processing (NLP),
running through the development of NLP architectures, and offers immense
opportunities for Large Language Models (LLMs) giving LLMs the lifelong
learning potential akin to humans. Unfortunately, the pursuit of a long context
is accompanied by numerous obstacles. Nevertheless, long context remains a core
competitive advantage for LLMs. In the past two years, the context length of
LLMs has achieved a breakthrough extension to millions of tokens. Moreover, the
research on long-context LLMs has expanded from length extrapolation to a
comprehensive focus on architecture, infrastructure, training, and evaluation
technologies.
  Inspired by the symphonic poem, Thus Spake Zarathustra, we draw an analogy
between the journey of extending the context of LLM and the attempts of humans
to transcend its mortality. In this survey, We will illustrate how LLM
struggles between the tremendous need for a longer context and its equal need
to accept the fact that it is ultimately finite. To achieve this, we give a
global picture of the lifecycle of long-context LLMs from four perspectives:
architecture, infrastructure, training, and evaluation, showcasing the full
spectrum of long-context technologies. At the end of this survey, we will
present 10 unanswered questions currently faced by long-context LLMs. We hope
this survey can serve as a systematic introduction to the research on
long-context LLMs.

---

## 3. [Slamming: Training a Speech Language Model on One GPU in a Day](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15814)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15814](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15814)

**Authors**: Gallil Maimon, Avishai Elmakies, Yossi Adi

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Gallil Maimon

**Upvotes**: 69

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/slp-rl/slamkit) | [Project Page](https://pages.cs.huji.ac.il/adiyoss-lab/slamming/)

### Abstract

We introduce Slam, a recipe for training high-quality Speech Language Models
(SLMs) on a single academic GPU in 24 hours. We do so through empirical
analysis of model initialisation and architecture, synthetic training data,
preference optimisation with synthetic data and tweaking all other components.
We empirically demonstrate that this training recipe also scales well with more
compute getting results on par with leading SLMs in a fraction of the compute
cost. We hope these insights will make SLM training and research more
accessible. In the context of SLM scaling laws, our results far outperform
predicted compute optimal performance, giving an optimistic view to SLM
feasibility. See code, data, models, samples at -
https://pages.cs.huji.ac.il/adiyoss-lab/slamming .

---

## 4. [DICEPTION: A Generalist Diffusion Model for Visual Perceptual Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.17157)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.17157](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17157)

**Authors**: Canyu Zhao, Mingyu Liu, Huanyi Zheng, Muzhi Zhu, Zhiyue Zhao, Hao Chen, Tong He, Chunhua Shen

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Canyu Zhao

**Upvotes**: 52

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aim-uofa/Diception) | [Project Page](https://aim-uofa.github.io/Diception/)

### Abstract

Our primary goal here is to create a good, generalist perception model that
can tackle multiple tasks, within limits on computational resources and
training data. To achieve this, we resort to text-to-image diffusion models
pre-trained on billions of images. Our exhaustive evaluation metrics
demonstrate that DICEPTION effectively tackles multiple perception tasks,
achieving performance on par with state-of-the-art models. We achieve results
on par with SAM-vit-h using only 0.06% of their data (e.g., 600K vs. 1B
pixel-level annotated images). Inspired by Wang et al., DICEPTION formulates
the outputs of various perception tasks using color encoding; and we show that
the strategy of assigning random colors to different instances is highly
effective in both entity segmentation and semantic segmentation. Unifying
various perception tasks as conditional image generation enables us to fully
leverage pre-trained text-to-image models. Thus, DICEPTION can be efficiently
trained at a cost of orders of magnitude lower, compared to conventional models
that were trained from scratch. When adapting our model to other tasks, it only
requires fine-tuning on as few as 50 images and 1% of its parameters. DICEPTION
provides valuable insights and a more promising solution for visual generalist
models.

---

## 5. [Audio-FLAN: A Preliminary Release](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.16584)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.16584](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16584)

**Authors**: Liumeng Xue, Ziya Zhou, Jiahao Pan, Zixuan Li, Shuai Fan, Yinghao Ma, Sitong Cheng, Dongchao Yang, Haohan Guo, Yujia Xiao, Xinsheng Wang, Zixuan Shen, Chuanbo Zhu, Xinshen Zhang, Tianchi Liu, Ruibin Yuan, Zeyue Tian, Haohe Liu, Emmanouil Benetos, Ge Zhang, Yike Guo, Wei Xue

**Published**: 2025-02-23 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Ruibin Yuan

**Upvotes**: 36

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lmxue/audio-flan)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in audio tokenization have significantly enhanced the
integration of audio capabilities into large language models (LLMs). However,
audio understanding and generation are often treated as distinct tasks,
hindering the development of truly unified audio-language models. While
instruction tuning has demonstrated remarkable success in improving
generalization and zero-shot learning across text and vision, its application
to audio remains largely unexplored. A major obstacle is the lack of
comprehensive datasets that unify audio understanding and generation. To
address this, we introduce Audio-FLAN, a large-scale instruction-tuning dataset
covering 80 diverse tasks across speech, music, and sound domains, with over
100 million instances. Audio-FLAN lays the foundation for unified
audio-language models that can seamlessly handle both understanding (e.g.,
transcription, comprehension) and generation (e.g., speech, music, sound) tasks
across a wide range of audio domains in a zero-shot manner. The Audio-FLAN
dataset is available on HuggingFace and GitHub and will be continuously
updated.

---

## 6. [Make LoRA Great Again: Boosting LoRA with Adaptive Singular Values and
  Mixture-of-Experts Optimization Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.16894)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.16894](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16894)

**Authors**: Chenghao Fan, Zhenyi Lu, Sichen Liu, Xiaoye Qu, Wei Wei, Chengfeng Gu, Yu Cheng

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Chenghao Fan

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Facico/GOAT-PEFT)

### Abstract

While Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) enables parameter-efficient fine-tuning for
Large Language Models (LLMs), its performance often falls short of Full
Fine-Tuning (Full FT). Current methods optimize LoRA by initializing with
static singular value decomposition (SVD) subsets, leading to suboptimal
leveraging of pre-trained knowledge. Another path for improving LoRA is
incorporating a Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architecture. However, weight
misalignment and complex gradient dynamics make it challenging to adopt SVD
prior to the LoRA MoE architecture. To mitigate these issues, we propose
Great LoRA Mixture-of-Expert
(GOAT), a framework that (1) adaptively integrates relevant priors using an
SVD-structured MoE, and (2) aligns optimization with full fine-tuned MoE by
deriving a theoretical scaling factor. We demonstrate that proper scaling,
without modifying the architecture or training algorithms, boosts LoRA MoE's
efficiency and performance. Experiments across 25 datasets, including natural
language understanding, commonsense reasoning, image classification, and
natural language generation, demonstrate GOAT's state-of-the-art performance,
closing the gap with Full FT.

---

## 7. [GCC: Generative Color Constancy via Diffusing a Color Checker](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.17435)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.17435](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17435)

**Authors**: Chen-Wei Chang, Cheng-De Fan, Chia-Che Chang, Yi-Chen Lo, Yu-Chee Tseng, Jiun-Long Huang, Yu-Lun Liu

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Yu-Lun Liu

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [Project Page](https://chenwei891213.github.io/GCC/)

### Abstract

Color constancy methods often struggle to generalize across different camera
sensors due to varying spectral sensitivities. We present GCC, which leverages
diffusion models to inpaint color checkers into images for illumination
estimation. Our key innovations include (1) a single-step deterministic
inference approach that inpaints color checkers reflecting scene illumination,
(2) a Laplacian decomposition technique that preserves checker structure while
allowing illumination-dependent color adaptation, and (3) a mask-based data
augmentation strategy for handling imprecise color checker annotations. GCC
demonstrates superior robustness in cross-camera scenarios, achieving
state-of-the-art worst-25% error rates of 5.15{\deg} and 4.32{\deg} in
bi-directional evaluations. These results highlight our method's stability and
generalization capability across different camera characteristics without
requiring sensor-specific training, making it a versatile solution for
real-world applications.

---

## 8. [CodeCriticBench: A Holistic Code Critique Benchmark for Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.16614)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.16614](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16614)

**Authors**: Alexander Zhang, Marcus Dong, Jiaheng Liu, Wei Zhang, Yejie Wang, Jian Yang, Ge Zhang, Tianyu Liu, Zhongyuan Peng, Yingshui Tan, Yuanxing Zhang, Zhexu Wang, Weixun Wang, Yancheng He, Ken Deng, Wangchunshu Zhou, Wenhao Huang, Zhaoxiang Zhang

**Published**: 2025-02-23 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Jiaheng Liu

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/multimodal-art-projection/CodeCriticBench)

### Abstract

The critique capacity of Large Language Models (LLMs) is essential for
reasoning abilities, which can provide necessary suggestions (e.g., detailed
analysis and constructive feedback). Therefore, how to evaluate the critique
capacity of LLMs has drawn great attention and several critique benchmarks have
been proposed. However, existing critique benchmarks usually have the following
limitations: (1). Focusing on diverse reasoning tasks in general domains and
insufficient evaluation on code tasks (e.g., only covering code generation
task), where the difficulty of queries is relatively easy (e.g., the code
queries of CriticBench are from Humaneval and MBPP). (2). Lacking comprehensive
evaluation from different dimensions. To address these limitations, we
introduce a holistic code critique benchmark for LLMs called CodeCriticBench.
Specifically, our CodeCriticBench includes two mainstream code tasks (i.e.,
code generation and code QA) with different difficulties. Besides, the
evaluation protocols include basic critique evaluation and advanced critique
evaluation for different characteristics, where fine-grained evaluation
checklists are well-designed for advanced settings. Finally, we conduct
extensive experimental results of existing LLMs, which show the effectiveness
of CodeCriticBench.

---

## 9. [Linguistic Generalizability of Test-Time Scaling in Mathematical
  Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.17407)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.17407](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17407)

**Authors**: Guijin Son, Jiwoo Hong, Hyunwoo Ko, James Thorne

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by GUIJIN SON

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gauss5930/mclm)

### Abstract

Scaling pre-training compute has proven effective for achieving
mulitlinguality, but does the same hold for test-time scaling? In this work, we
introduce MCLM, a multilingual math benchmark featuring competition-level
problems in 55 languages. We test three test-time scaling methods-Outcome
Reward Modeling (ORM), Process Reward Modeling (ORM), and Budget Forcing
(BF)-on both Qwen2.5-1.5B Math and MR1-1.5B, a multilingual LLM we trained for
extended reasoning. Our experiments show that using Qwen2.5-1.5B Math with ORM
achieves a score of 35.8 on MCLM, while BF on MR1-1.5B attains 35.2. Although
"thinking LLMs" have recently garnered significant attention, we find that
their performance is comparable to traditional scaling methods like best-of-N
once constrained to similar levels of inference FLOPs. Moreover, while BF
yields a 20-point improvement on English AIME, it provides only a 1.94-point
average gain across other languages-a pattern consistent across the other
test-time scaling methods we studied-higlighting that test-time scaling may not
generalize as effectively to multilingual tasks. To foster further research, we
release MCLM, MR1-1.5B, and evaluation results.

---

## 10. [Stable-SPAM: How to Train in 4-Bit More Stably than 16-Bit Adam](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.17055)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.17055](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17055)

**Authors**: Tianjin Huang, Haotian Hu, Zhenyu Zhang, Gaojie Jin, Xiang Li, Li Shen, Tianlong Chen, Lu Liu, Qingsong Wen, Zhangyang Wang, Shiwei Liu

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Tianjin Huang

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tianjinyellow/stablespam)

### Abstract

This paper comprehensively evaluates several recently proposed optimizers for
4-bit training, revealing that low-bit precision amplifies sensitivity to
learning rates and often causes unstable gradient norms, leading to divergence
at higher learning rates. Among these, SPAM, a recent optimizer featuring
momentum reset and spike-aware gradient clipping, achieves the best performance
across various bit levels, but struggles to stabilize gradient norms, requiring
careful learning rate tuning. To address these limitations, we propose
Stable-SPAM, which incorporates enhanced gradient normalization and clipping
techniques. In particular, Stable-SPAM (1) adaptively updates the clipping
threshold for spiked gradients by tracking their historical maxima; (2)
normalizes the entire gradient matrix based on its historical l_2-norm
statistics; and (3) inherits momentum reset from SPAM to periodically reset
the first and second moments of Adam, mitigating the accumulation of spiked
gradients. Extensive experiments show that Stable-SPAM effectively stabilizes
gradient norms in 4-bit LLM training, delivering superior performance compared
to Adam and SPAM. Notably, our 4-bit LLaMA-1B model trained with Stable-SPAM
outperforms the BF16 LLaMA-1B trained with Adam by up to 2 perplexity.
Furthermore, when both models are trained in 4-bit, Stable-SPAM achieves the
same loss as Adam while requiring only about half the training steps. Code is
available at https://github.com/TianjinYellow/StableSPAM.git.

---

## 11. [RIFLEx: A Free Lunch for Length Extrapolation in Video Diffusion
  Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15894)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15894](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15894)

**Authors**: Min Zhao, Guande He, Yixiao Chen, Hongzhou Zhu, Chongxuan Li, Jun Zhu

**Published**: 2025-02-21 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thu-ml/RIFLEx) | [Project Page](https://riflex-video.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in video generation have enabled models to synthesize
high-quality, minute-long videos. However, generating even longer videos with
temporal coherence remains a major challenge, and existing length extrapolation
methods lead to temporal repetition or motion deceleration. In this work, we
systematically analyze the role of frequency components in positional
embeddings and identify an intrinsic frequency that primarily governs
extrapolation behavior. Based on this insight, we propose RIFLEx, a minimal yet
effective approach that reduces the intrinsic frequency to suppress repetition
while preserving motion consistency, without requiring any additional
modifications. RIFLEx offers a true free lunch--achieving high-quality
2times extrapolation on state-of-the-art video diffusion transformers in a
completely training-free manner. Moreover, it enhances quality and enables
3times extrapolation by minimal fine-tuning without long videos. Project
page and codes:
https://riflex-video.github.io/{https://riflex-video.github.io/.}

---

## 12. [Multimodal Inconsistency Reasoning (MMIR): A New Benchmark for
  Multimodal Reasoning Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.16033)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.16033](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16033)

**Authors**: Qianqi Yan, Yue Fan, Hongquan Li, Shan Jiang, Yang Zhao, Xinze Guan, Ching-Chen Kuo, Xin Eric Wang

**Published**: 2025-02-22 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Xin Eric Wang

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/eric-ai-lab/MMIR)

### Abstract

Existing Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) are predominantly trained
and tested on consistent visual-textual inputs, leaving open the question of
whether they can handle inconsistencies in real-world, layout-rich content. To
bridge this gap, we propose the Multimodal Inconsistency Reasoning (MMIR)
benchmark to assess MLLMs' ability to detect and reason about semantic
mismatches in artifacts such as webpages, presentation slides, and posters.
MMIR comprises 534 challenging samples, each containing synthetically injected
errors across five reasoning-heavy categories: Factual Contradiction, Identity
Misattribution, Contextual Mismatch, Quantitative Discrepancy, and
Temporal/Spatial Incoherence. We evaluate six state-of-the-art MLLMs, showing
that models with dedicated multimodal reasoning capabilities, such as o1,
substantially outperform their counterparts while open-source models remain
particularly vulnerable to inconsistency errors. Detailed error analyses
further show that models excel in detecting inconsistencies confined to a
single modality, particularly in text, but struggle with cross-modal conflicts
and complex layouts. Probing experiments reveal that single-modality prompting,
including Chain-of-Thought (CoT) and Set-of-Mark (SoM) methods, yields marginal
gains, revealing a key bottleneck in cross-modal reasoning. Our findings
highlight the need for advanced multimodal reasoning and point to future
research on multimodal inconsistency.

---

## 13. [Beyond Release: Access Considerations for Generative AI Systems](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.16701)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.16701](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16701)

**Authors**: Irene Solaiman, Rishi Bommasani, Dan Hendrycks, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Yacine Jernite, Aviya Skowron, Andrew Trask

**Published**: 2025-02-23 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Irene Solaiman

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Generative AI release decisions determine whether system components are made
available, but release does not address many other elements that change how
users and stakeholders are able to engage with a system. Beyond release, access
to system components informs potential risks and benefits. Access refers to
practical needs, infrastructurally, technically, and societally, in order to
use available components in some way. We deconstruct access along three axes:
resourcing, technical usability, and utility. Within each category, a set of
variables per system component clarify tradeoffs. For example, resourcing
requires access to computing infrastructure to serve model weights. We also
compare the accessibility of four high performance language models, two
open-weight and two closed-weight, showing similar considerations for all based
instead on access variables. Access variables set the foundation for being able
to scale or increase access to users; we examine the scale of access and how
scale affects ability to manage and intervene on risks. This framework better
encompasses the landscape and risk-benefit tradeoffs of system releases to
inform system release decisions, research, and policy.

---

## 14. [X-Dancer: Expressive Music to Human Dance Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.17414)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.17414](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17414)

**Authors**: Zeyuan Chen, Hongyi Xu, Guoxian Song, You Xie, Chenxu Zhang, Xin Chen, Chao Wang, Di Chang, Linjie Luo

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

We present X-Dancer, a novel zero-shot music-driven image animation pipeline
that creates diverse and long-range lifelike human dance videos from a single
static image. As its core, we introduce a unified transformer-diffusion
framework, featuring an autoregressive transformer model that synthesize
extended and music-synchronized token sequences for 2D body, head and hands
poses, which then guide a diffusion model to produce coherent and realistic
dance video frames. Unlike traditional methods that primarily generate human
motion in 3D, X-Dancer addresses data limitations and enhances scalability by
modeling a wide spectrum of 2D dance motions, capturing their nuanced alignment
with musical beats through readily available monocular videos. To achieve this,
we first build a spatially compositional token representation from 2D human
pose labels associated with keypoint confidences, encoding both large
articulated body movements (e.g., upper and lower body) and fine-grained
motions (e.g., head and hands). We then design a music-to-motion transformer
model that autoregressively generates music-aligned dance pose token sequences,
incorporating global attention to both musical style and prior motion context.
Finally we leverage a diffusion backbone to animate the reference image with
these synthesized pose tokens through AdaIN, forming a fully differentiable
end-to-end framework. Experimental results demonstrate that X-Dancer is able to
produce both diverse and characterized dance videos, substantially
outperforming state-of-the-art methods in term of diversity, expressiveness and
realism. Code and model will be available for research purposes.

---

## 15. [Mobile-Agent-V: Learning Mobile Device Operation Through Video-Guided
  Multi-Agent Collaboration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.17110)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.17110](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17110)

**Authors**: Junyang Wang, Haiyang Xu, Xi Zhang, Ming Yan, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, Jitao Sang

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by xuhaiyang

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

The rapid increase in mobile device usage necessitates improved automation
for seamless task management. However, many AI-driven frameworks struggle due
to insufficient operational knowledge. Manually written knowledge helps but is
labor-intensive and inefficient. To address these challenges, we introduce
Mobile-Agent-V, a framework that leverages video guidance to provide rich and
cost-effective operational knowledge for mobile automation. Mobile-Agent-V
enhances task execution capabilities by leveraging video inputs without
requiring specialized sampling or preprocessing. Mobile-Agent-V integrates a
sliding window strategy and incorporates a video agent and deep-reflection
agent to ensure that actions align with user instructions. Through this
innovative approach, users can record task processes with guidance, enabling
the system to autonomously learn and execute tasks efficiently. Experimental
results show that Mobile-Agent-V achieves a 30% performance improvement
compared to existing frameworks.

---

## 16. [Reflective Planning: Vision-Language Models for Multi-Stage Long-Horizon
  Robotic Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.16707)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.16707](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16707)

**Authors**: Yunhai Feng, Jiaming Han, Zhuoran Yang, Xiangyu Yue, Sergey Levine, Jianlan Luo

**Published**: 2025-02-23 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Jianlan Luo

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yunhaif/reflect-vlm) | [Project Page](https://reflect-vlm.github.io)

### Abstract

Solving complex long-horizon robotic manipulation problems requires
sophisticated high-level planning capabilities, the ability to reason about the
physical world, and reactively choose appropriate motor skills. Vision-language
models (VLMs) pretrained on Internet data could in principle offer a framework
for tackling such problems. However, in their current form, VLMs lack both the
nuanced understanding of intricate physics required for robotic manipulation
and the ability to reason over long horizons to address error compounding
issues. In this paper, we introduce a novel test-time computation framework
that enhances VLMs' physical reasoning capabilities for multi-stage
manipulation tasks. At its core, our approach iteratively improves a pretrained
VLM with a "reflection" mechanism - it uses a generative model to imagine
future world states, leverages these predictions to guide action selection, and
critically reflects on potential suboptimalities to refine its reasoning.
Experimental results demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms
several state-of-the-art commercial VLMs as well as other post-training
approaches such as Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS). Videos are available at
https://reflect-vlm.github.io.

---

## 17. [Grounded Persuasive Language Generation for Automated Marketing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.16810)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.16810](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16810)

**Authors**: Jibang Wu, Chenghao Yang, Simon Mahns, Chaoqi Wang, Hao Zhu, Fei Fang, Haifeng Xu

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Hao Zhu

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yangalan123/AI-Realtor-Codebase) | [Project Page](https://yangalan123.github.io/ai-realtor/)

### Abstract

This paper develops an agentic framework that employs large language models
(LLMs) to automate the generation of persuasive and grounded marketing content,
using real estate listing descriptions as our focal application domain. Our
method is designed to align the generated content with user preferences while
highlighting useful factual attributes. This agent consists of three key
modules: (1) Grounding Module, mimicking expert human behavior to predict
marketable features; (2) Personalization Module, aligning content with user
preferences; (3) Marketing Module, ensuring factual accuracy and the inclusion
of localized features. We conduct systematic human-subject experiments in the
domain of real estate marketing, with a focus group of potential house buyers.
The results demonstrate that marketing descriptions generated by our approach
are preferred over those written by human experts by a clear margin. Our
findings suggest a promising LLM-based agentic framework to automate
large-scale targeted marketing while ensuring responsible generation using only
facts.

---

## 18. [Forecasting Open-Weight AI Model Growth on Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15987)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15987](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15987)

**Authors**: Kushal Raj Bhandari, Pin-Yu Chen, Jianxi Gao

**Published**: 2025-02-21 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Clem 🤗

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [Project Page](https://forecasthuggingfacemodels.onrender.com/)

### Abstract

As the open-weight AI landscape continues to proliferate-with model
development, significant investment, and user interest-it becomes increasingly
important to predict which models will ultimately drive innovation and shape AI
ecosystems. Building on parallels with citation dynamics in scientific
literature, we propose a framework to quantify how an open-weight model's
influence evolves. Specifically, we adapt the model introduced by Wang et al.
for scientific citations, using three key parameters-immediacy, longevity, and
relative fitness-to track the cumulative number of fine-tuned models of an
open-weight model. Our findings reveal that this citation-style approach can
effectively capture the diverse trajectories of open-weight model adoption,
with most models fitting well and outliers indicating unique patterns or abrupt
jumps in usage.

---

## 19. [TAG: A Decentralized Framework for Multi-Agent Hierarchical
  Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15425)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15425](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15425)

**Authors**: Giuseppe Paolo, Abdelhakim Benechehab, Hamza Cherkaoui, Albert Thomas, Balázs Kégl

**Published**: 2025-02-21 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Giuseppe Paolo

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/GPaolo/TAG_Framework)

### Abstract

Hierarchical organization is fundamental to biological systems and human
societies, yet artificial intelligence systems often rely on monolithic
architectures that limit adaptability and scalability. Current hierarchical
reinforcement learning (HRL) approaches typically restrict hierarchies to two
levels or require centralized training, which limits their practical
applicability. We introduce TAME Agent Framework (TAG), a framework for
constructing fully decentralized hierarchical multi-agent systems.TAG enables
hierarchies of arbitrary depth through a novel LevelEnv concept, which
abstracts each hierarchy level as the environment for the agents above it. This
approach standardizes information flow between levels while preserving loose
coupling, allowing for seamless integration of diverse agent types. We
demonstrate the effectiveness of TAG by implementing hierarchical architectures
that combine different RL agents across multiple levels, achieving improved
performance over classical multi-agent RL baselines on standard benchmarks. Our
results show that decentralized hierarchical organization enhances both
learning speed and final performance, positioning TAG as a promising direction
for scalable multi-agent systems.

---

## 20. [Benchmarking Temporal Reasoning and Alignment Across Chinese Dynasties](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.16922)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.16922](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16922)

**Authors**: Zhenglin Wang, Jialong Wu, Pengfei LI, Yong Jiang, Deyu Zhou

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Jialong Wu

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Linking-ai/ctm_bench)

### Abstract

Temporal reasoning is fundamental to human cognition and is crucial for
various real-world applications. While recent advances in Large Language Models
have demonstrated promising capabilities in temporal reasoning, existing
benchmarks primarily rely on rule-based construction, lack contextual depth,
and involve a limited range of temporal entities. To address these limitations,
we introduce Chinese Time Reasoning (CTM), a benchmark designed to evaluate
LLMs on temporal reasoning within the extensive scope of Chinese dynastic
chronology. CTM emphasizes cross-entity relationships, pairwise temporal
alignment, and contextualized and culturally-grounded reasoning, providing a
comprehensive evaluation. Extensive experimental results reveal the challenges
posed by CTM and highlight potential avenues for improvement.

---

## 21. [InductionBench: LLMs Fail in the Simplest Complexity Class](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15823)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15823](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15823)

**Authors**: Wenyue Hua, Tyler Wong, Sun Fei, Liangming Pan, Adam Jardine, William Yang Wang

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Wenyue Hua

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wenyueh/inductive_reasoning_benchmark)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable improvements in reasoning
and many existing benchmarks have been addressed by models such as o1 and o3
either fully or partially. However, a majority of these benchmarks emphasize
deductive reasoning, including mathematical and coding tasks in which rules
such as mathematical axioms or programming syntax are clearly defined, based on
which LLMs can plan and apply these rules to arrive at a solution. In contrast,
inductive reasoning, where one infers the underlying rules from observed data,
remains less explored. Such inductive processes lie at the heart of scientific
discovery, as they enable researchers to extract general principles from
empirical observations. To assess whether LLMs possess this capacity, we
introduce InductionBench, a new benchmark designed to evaluate the inductive
reasoning ability of LLMs. Our experimental findings reveal that even the most
advanced models available struggle to master the simplest complexity classes
within the subregular hierarchy of functions, highlighting a notable deficiency
in current LLMs' inductive reasoning capabilities. Coda and data are available
https://github.com/Wenyueh/inductive_reasoning_benchmark.

---

## 22. [Investigating the Impact of Quantization Methods on the Safety and
  Reliability of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15799)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15799](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15799)

**Authors**: Artyom Kharinaev, Viktor Moskvoretskii, Egor Shvetsov, Kseniia Studenikina, Bykov Mikhail, Evgeny Burnaev

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Egor Shvetsov

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/On-Point-RND/OpenSafetyMini-Investigating-the-Impact-of-Quantization-Methods-on-the-Safety-and-Reliability-of-LLM)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful tools for addressing
modern challenges and enabling practical applications. However, their
computational expense remains a significant barrier to widespread adoption.
Quantization has emerged as a promising technique to democratize access and
enable low resource device deployment. Despite these advancements, the safety
and trustworthiness of quantized models remain underexplored, as prior studies
often overlook contemporary architectures and rely on overly simplistic
benchmarks and evaluations. To address this gap, we introduce OpenSafetyMini, a
novel open-ended safety dataset designed to better distinguish between models.
We evaluate 4 state-of-the-art quantization techniques across LLaMA and Mistral
models using 4 benchmarks, including human evaluations. Our findings reveal
that the optimal quantization method varies for 4-bit precision, while vector
quantization techniques deliver the best safety and trustworthiness performance
at 2-bit precision, providing foundation for future research.

---

## 23. [Pandora3D: A Comprehensive Framework for High-Quality 3D Shape and
  Texture Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14247)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14247](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14247)

**Authors**: Jiayu Yang, Taizhang Shang, Weixuan Sun, Xibin Song, Ziang Cheng, Senbo Wang, Shenzhou Chen, Weizhe Liu, Hongdong Li, Pan Ji

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Peter Ji

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tencent/tencent-xr-3dgen)

### Abstract

This report presents a comprehensive framework for generating high-quality 3D
shapes and textures from diverse input prompts, including single images,
multi-view images, and text descriptions. The framework consists of 3D shape
generation and texture generation. (1). The 3D shape generation pipeline
employs a Variational Autoencoder (VAE) to encode implicit 3D geometries into a
latent space and a diffusion network to generate latents conditioned on input
prompts, with modifications to enhance model capacity. An alternative
Artist-Created Mesh (AM) generation approach is also explored, yielding
promising results for simpler geometries. (2). Texture generation involves a
multi-stage process starting with frontal images generation followed by
multi-view images generation, RGB-to-PBR texture conversion, and
high-resolution multi-view texture refinement. A consistency scheduler is
plugged into every stage, to enforce pixel-wise consistency among multi-view
textures during inference, ensuring seamless integration.
  The pipeline demonstrates effective handling of diverse input formats,
leveraging advanced neural architectures and novel methodologies to produce
high-quality 3D content. This report details the system architecture,
experimental results, and potential future directions to improve and expand the
framework. The source code and pretrained weights are released at:
https://github.com/Tencent/Tencent-XR-3DGen.

---

## 24. [Can Community Notes Replace Professional Fact-Checkers?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14132)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14132](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14132)

**Organization**: CopeNLU

**Authors**: Nadav Borenstein, Greta Warren, Desmond Elliott, Isabelle Augenstein

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Nadav Borenstein

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Two commonly-employed strategies to combat the rise of misinformation on
social media are (i) fact-checking by professional organisations and (ii)
community moderation by platform users. Policy changes by Twitter/X and, more
recently, Meta, signal a shift away from partnerships with fact-checking
organisations and towards an increased reliance on crowdsourced community
notes. However, the extent and nature of dependencies between fact-checking and
helpful community notes remain unclear. To address these questions, we use
language models to annotate a large corpus of Twitter/X community notes with
attributes such as topic, cited sources, and whether they refute claims tied to
broader misinformation narratives. Our analysis reveals that community notes
cite fact-checking sources up to five times more than previously reported.
Fact-checking is especially crucial for notes on posts linked to broader
narratives, which are twice as likely to reference fact-checking sources
compared to other sources. In conclusion, our results show that successful
community moderation heavily relies on professional fact-checking.

---

## 25. [MegaLoc: One Retrieval to Place Them All](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.17237)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.17237](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17237)

**Authors**: Gabriele Berton, Carlo Masone

**Published**: 2025-02-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Gabriele Berton

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gmberton/megaloc)

### Abstract

Retrieving images from the same location as a given query is an important
component of multiple computer vision tasks, like Visual Place Recognition,
Landmark Retrieval, Visual Localization, 3D reconstruction, and SLAM. However,
existing solutions are built to specifically work for one of these tasks, and
are known to fail when the requirements slightly change or when they meet
out-of-distribution data. In this paper we combine a variety of existing
methods, training techniques, and datasets to train a retrieval model, called
MegaLoc, that is performant on multiple tasks. We find that MegaLoc (1)
achieves state of the art on a large number of Visual Place Recognition
datasets, (2) impressive results on common Landmark Retrieval datasets, and (3)
sets a new state of the art for Visual Localization on the LaMAR datasets,
where we only changed the retrieval method to the existing localization
pipeline. The code for MegaLoc is available at
https://github.com/gmberton/MegaLoc

---

## 26. [MutaGReP: Execution-Free Repository-Grounded Plan Search for Code-Use](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15872)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15872](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15872)

**Authors**: Zaid Khan, Ali Farhadi, Ranjay Krishna, Luca Weihs, Mohit Bansal, Tanmay Gupta

**Published**: 2025-02-21 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Zaid Khan

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/codezakh/MutaGReP)

### Abstract

When a human requests an LLM to complete a coding task using functionality
from a large code repository, how do we provide context from the repo to the
LLM? One approach is to add the entire repo to the LLM's context window.
However, most tasks involve only fraction of symbols from a repo, longer
contexts are detrimental to the LLM's reasoning abilities, and context windows
are not unlimited. Alternatively, we could emulate the human ability to
navigate a large repo, pick out the right functionality, and form a plan to
solve the task. We propose MutaGReP (Mutation-guided Grounded Repository Plan
Search), an approach to search for plans that decompose a user request into
natural language steps grounded in the codebase. MutaGReP performs neural tree
search in plan space, exploring by mutating plans and using a symbol retriever
for grounding. On the challenging LongCodeArena benchmark, our plans use less
than 5% of the 128K context window for GPT-4o but rival the coding performance
of GPT-4o with a context window filled with the repo. Plans produced by
MutaGReP allow Qwen 2.5 Coder 32B and 72B to match the performance of GPT-4o
with full repo context and enable progress on the hardest LongCodeArena tasks.
Project page: zaidkhan.me/MutaGReP

---

## 27. [Mind the Gap! Static and Interactive Evaluations of Large Audio Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15919)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15919](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15919)

**Authors**: Minzhi Li, William Barr Held, Michael J Ryan, Kunat Pipatanakul, Potsawee Manakul, Hao Zhu, Diyi Yang

**Published**: 2025-02-21 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Will Held

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

As AI chatbots become ubiquitous, voice interaction presents a compelling way
to enable rapid, high-bandwidth communication for both semantic and social
signals. This has driven research into Large Audio Models (LAMs) to power
voice-native experiences. However, aligning LAM development with user goals
requires a clear understanding of user needs and preferences to establish
reliable progress metrics. This study addresses these challenges by introducing
an interactive approach to evaluate LAMs and collecting 7,500 LAM interactions
from 484 participants. Through topic modeling of user queries, we identify
primary use cases for audio interfaces. We then analyze user preference
rankings and qualitative feedback to determine which models best align with
user needs. Finally, we evaluate how static benchmarks predict interactive
performance - our analysis reveals no individual benchmark strongly correlates
with interactive results (tau leq 0.33 for all benchmarks). While combining
multiple coarse-grained features yields modest predictive power (R^2=0.30),
only two out of twenty datasets on spoken question answering and age prediction
show significantly positive correlations. This suggests a clear need to develop
LAM evaluations that better correlate with user preferences.

---

## 28. [MONSTER: Monash Scalable Time Series Evaluation Repository](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15122)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15122](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15122)

**Authors**: Angus Dempster, Navid Mohammadi Foumani, Chang Wei Tan, Lynn Miller, Amish Mishra, Mahsa Salehi, Charlotte Pelletier, Daniel F. Schmidt, Geoffrey I. Webb

**Published**: 2025-02-21 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Angus

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Navidfoumani/monster)

### Abstract

We introduce MONSTER-the MONash Scalable Time Series Evaluation Repository-a
collection of large datasets for time series classification. The field of time
series classification has benefitted from common benchmarks set by the UCR and
UEA time series classification repositories. However, the datasets in these
benchmarks are small, with median sizes of 217 and 255 examples, respectively.
In consequence they favour a narrow subspace of models that are optimised to
achieve low classification error on a wide variety of smaller datasets, that
is, models that minimise variance, and give little weight to computational
issues such as scalability. Our hope is to diversify the field by introducing
benchmarks using larger datasets. We believe that there is enormous potential
for new progress in the field by engaging with the theoretical and practical
challenges of learning effectively from larger quantities of data.

---

## 29. [Early-Exit and Instant Confidence Translation Quality Estimation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14429)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14429](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14429)

**Authors**: Vilém Zouhar, Maike Züfle, Beni Egressy, Julius Cheng, Jan Niehues

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Vilém Zouhar

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zouharvi/COMET-early-exit)

### Abstract

Quality estimation is omnipresent in machine translation, for both evaluation
and generation. Unfortunately, quality estimation models are often opaque and
computationally expensive, making them impractical to be part of large-scale
pipelines. In this work, we tackle two connected challenges: (1) reducing the
cost of quality estimation at scale, and (2) developing an inexpensive
uncertainty estimation method for quality estimation. To address the latter, we
introduce Instant Confidence COMET, an uncertainty-aware quality estimation
model that matches the performance of previous approaches at a fraction of
their costs. We extend this to Early-Exit COMET, a quality estimation model
that can compute quality scores and associated confidences already at early
model layers, allowing us to early-exit computations and reduce evaluation
costs. We also apply our model to machine translation reranking. We combine
Early-Exit COMET with an upper confidence bound bandit algorithm to find the
best candidate from a large pool without having to run the full evaluation
model on all candidates. In both cases (evaluation and reranking) our methods
reduce the required compute by 50% with very little degradation in performance.

---

## 30. [Self-Taught Agentic Long Context Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15920)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15920](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15920)

**Authors**: Yufan Zhuang, Xiaodong Yu, Jialian Wu, Ximeng Sun, Ze Wang, Jiang Liu, Yusheng Su, Jingbo Shang, Zicheng Liu, Emad Barsoum

**Published**: 2025-02-21 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Yufan Zhuang

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/EvanZhuang/AgenticLU)

### Abstract

Answering complex, long-context questions remains a major challenge for large
language models (LLMs) as it requires effective question clarifications and
context retrieval. We propose Agentic Long-Context Understanding (AgenticLU), a
framework designed to enhance an LLM's understanding of such queries by
integrating targeted self-clarification with contextual grounding within an
agentic workflow. At the core of AgenticLU is Chain-of-Clarifications (CoC),
where models refine their understanding through self-generated clarification
questions and corresponding contextual groundings. By scaling inference as a
tree search where each node represents a CoC step, we achieve 97.8% answer
recall on NarrativeQA with a search depth of up to three and a branching factor
of eight. To amortize the high cost of this search process to training, we
leverage the preference pairs for each step obtained by the CoC workflow and
perform two-stage model finetuning: (1) supervised finetuning to learn
effective decomposition strategies, and (2) direct preference optimization to
enhance reasoning quality. This enables AgenticLU models to generate
clarifications and retrieve relevant context effectively and efficiently in a
single inference pass. Extensive experiments across seven long-context tasks
demonstrate that AgenticLU significantly outperforms state-of-the-art prompting
methods and specialized long-context LLMs, achieving robust multi-hop reasoning
while sustaining consistent performance as context length grows.

---

## 31. [Diagnosing COVID-19 Severity from Chest X-Ray Images Using ViT and CNN
  Architectures](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.16622)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.16622](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16622)

**Authors**: Lucia Eve Berger, Rajesh Raju, Shawn Whitfield

**Published**: 2025-02-23 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Luis Lara

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/stwhitfield/covid-severity)

### Abstract

The COVID-19 pandemic strained healthcare resources and prompted discussion
about how machine learning can alleviate physician burdens and contribute to
diagnosis. Chest x-rays (CXRs) are used for diagnosis of COVID-19, but few
studies predict the severity of a patient's condition from CXRs. In this study,
we produce a large COVID severity dataset by merging three sources and
investigate the efficacy of transfer learning using ImageNet- and
CXR-pretrained models and vision transformers (ViTs) in both severity
regression and classification tasks. A pretrained DenseNet161 model performed
the best on the three class severity prediction problem, reaching 80% accuracy
overall and 77.3%, 83.9%, and 70% on mild, moderate and severe cases,
respectively. The ViT had the best regression results, with a mean absolute
error of 0.5676 compared to radiologist-predicted severity scores. The
project's source code is publicly available.

---

## 32. [M3-AGIQA: Multimodal, Multi-Round, Multi-Aspect AI-Generated Image
  Quality Assessment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.15167)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.15167](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15167)

**Authors**: Chuan Cui, Kejiang Chen, Zhihua Wei, Wen Shen, Weiming Zhang, Nenghai Yu

**Published**: 2025-02-21 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by Niels Rogge

**Upvotes**: 2

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/strawhatboy/M3-AGIQA)

### Abstract

The rapid advancement of AI-generated image (AGI) models has introduced
significant challenges in evaluating their quality, which requires considering
multiple dimensions such as perceptual quality, prompt correspondence, and
authenticity. To address these challenges, we propose M3-AGIQA, a comprehensive
framework for AGI quality assessment that is Multimodal, Multi-Round, and
Multi-Aspect. Our approach leverages the capabilities of Multimodal Large
Language Models (MLLMs) as joint text and image encoders and distills advanced
captioning capabilities from online MLLMs into a local model via Low-Rank
Adaptation (LoRA) fine-tuning. The framework includes a structured multi-round
evaluation mechanism, where intermediate image descriptions are generated to
provide deeper insights into the quality, correspondence, and authenticity
aspects. To align predictions with human perceptual judgments, a predictor
constructed by an xLSTM and a regression head is incorporated to process
sequential logits and predict Mean Opinion Scores (MOSs). Extensive experiments
conducted on multiple benchmark datasets demonstrate that M3-AGIQA achieves
state-of-the-art performance, effectively capturing nuanced aspects of AGI
quality. Furthermore, cross-dataset validation confirms its strong
generalizability. The code is available at
https://github.com/strawhatboy/M3-AGIQA.

---

## 33. [The snake in the Brownian sphere](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13074)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13074](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13074)

**Authors**: Omer Angel, Emmanuel Jacob, Brett Kolesnik, Grégory Miermont

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-25 by ZLW

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

The Brownian sphere is a random metric space, homeomorphic to the
two-dimensional sphere, which arises as the universal scaling limit of many
types of random planar maps. The direct construction of the Brownian sphere is
via a continuous analogue of the Cori--Vauquelin--Schaeffer (CVS) bijection.
The CVS bijection maps labeled trees to planar maps, and the continuous version
maps Aldous' continuum random tree with Brownian labels (the Brownian snake) to
the Brownian sphere. In this work, we describe the inverse of the continuous
CVS bijection, by constructing the Brownian snake as a measurable function of
the Brownian sphere. Special care is needed to work with the orientation of the
Brownian sphere.

---
