# Daily Papers - 2025-02-21

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-02-21)

Total papers: 29

---

## 1. [MLGym: A New Framework and Benchmark for Advancing AI Research Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14499)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14499](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14499)

**Authors**: Deepak Nathani, Lovish Madaan, Nicholas Roberts, Nikolay Bashlykov, Ajay Menon, Vincent Moens, Amar Budhiraja, Despoina Magka, Vladislav Vorotilov, Gaurav Chaurasia, Dieuwke Hupkes, Ricardo Silveira Cabral, Tatiana Shavrina, Jakob Foerster, Yoram Bachrach, William Yang Wang, Roberta Raileanu

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 194

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/MLGym)

### Abstract

We introduce Meta MLGym and MLGym-Bench, a new framework and benchmark for
evaluating and developing LLM agents on AI research tasks. This is the first
Gym environment for machine learning (ML) tasks, enabling research on
reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms for training such agents. MLGym-bench
consists of 13 diverse and open-ended AI research tasks from diverse domains
such as computer vision, natural language processing, reinforcement learning,
and game theory. Solving these tasks requires real-world AI research skills
such as generating new ideas and hypotheses, creating and processing data,
implementing ML methods, training models, running experiments, analyzing the
results, and iterating through this process to improve on a given task. We
evaluate a number of frontier large language models (LLMs) on our benchmarks
such as Claude-3.5-Sonnet, Llama-3.1 405B, GPT-4o, o1-preview, and Gemini-1.5
Pro. Our MLGym framework makes it easy to add new tasks, integrate and evaluate
models or agents, generate synthetic data at scale, as well as develop new
learning algorithms for training agents on AI research tasks. We find that
current frontier models can improve on the given baselines, usually by finding
better hyperparameters, but do not generate novel hypotheses, algorithms,
architectures, or substantial improvements. We open-source our framework and
benchmark to facilitate future research in advancing the AI research
capabilities of LLM agents.

---

## 2. [SigLIP 2: Multilingual Vision-Language Encoders with Improved Semantic
  Understanding, Localization, and Dense Features](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14786)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14786](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14786)

**Authors**: Michael Tschannen, Alexey Gritsenko, Xiao Wang, Muhammad Ferjad Naeem, Ibrahim Alabdulmohsin, Nikhil Parthasarathy, Talfan Evans, Lucas Beyer, Ye Xia, Basil Mustafa, Olivier Hénaff, Jeremiah Harmsen, Andreas Steiner, Xiaohua Zhai

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 160

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-research/big_vision) | [Project Page](https://github.com/google-research/big_vision/blob/main/big_vision/configs/proj/image_text/README_siglip2.md)

### Abstract

We introduce SigLIP 2, a family of new multilingual vision-language encoders
that build on the success of the original SigLIP. In this second iteration, we
extend the original image-text training objective with several prior,
independently developed techniques into a unified recipe -- this includes
captioning-based pretraining, self-supervised losses (self-distillation, masked
prediction) and online data curation. With these changes, SigLIP 2 models
outperform their SigLIP counterparts at all model scales in core capabilities,
including zero-shot classification, image-text retrieval, and transfer
performance when extracting visual representations for Vision-Language Models
(VLMs). Furthermore, the new training recipe leads to significant improvements
on localization and dense prediction tasks. We also train variants which
support multiple resolutions and preserve the input's native aspect ratio.
Finally, we train on a more diverse data-mixture that includes de-biasing
techniques, leading to much better multilingual understanding and improved
fairness. To allow users to trade off inference cost with performance, we
release model checkpoints at four sizes: ViT-B (86M), L (303M), So400m (400M),
and g (1B).

---

## 3. [SuperGPQA: Scaling LLM Evaluation across 285 Graduate Disciplines](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14739)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14739](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14739)

**Organization**: ByteDance Seed

**Authors**: M-A-P Team, Xinrun Du, Yifan Yao, Kaijing Ma, Bingli Wang, Tianyu Zheng, Kang Zhu, Minghao Liu, Yiming Liang, Xiaolong Jin, Chujie Zheng, Kaixing Deng, Shuyue Guo, Shian Jia, Sichao Jiang, Yiyan Liao, Rui Li, Qinrui Li, Sirun Li, Yizhi Li, Yunwen Li, Dehua Ma, Yuansheng Ni, Haoran Que, Qiyao Wang, Zhoufutu Wen, Siwei Wu, Tianshun Xing, Ming Xu, Zhenzhu Yang, Zekun Moore Wang, Junting Zhou, Yuelin Bai, Xingyuan Bu, Chenglin Cai, Liang Chen, Yifan Chen, Chengtuo Cheng, Tianhao Cheng, Keyi Ding, Siming Huang, Yun Huang, Yaoru Li, Yizhe Li, Zhaoqun Li, Tianhao Liang, Chengdong Lin, Hongquan Lin, Yinghao Ma, Zhongyuan Peng, Zifan Peng, Qige Qi, Shi Qiu, Xingwei Qu, Yizhou Tan, Zili Wang, Chenqing Wang, Hao Wang, Yiya Wang, Yubo Wang, Jiajun Xu, Kexin Yang, Ruibin Yuan, Yuanhao Yue, Tianyang Zhan, Chun Zhang, Jingyang Zhang, Xiyue Zhang, Xingjian Zhang, Yue Zhang, Yongchi Zhao, Xiangyu Zheng, Chenghua Zhong, Yang Gao, Zhoujun Li, Dayiheng Liu, Qian Liu, Tianyu Liu, Shiwen Ni, Junran Peng, Yujia Qin, Wenbo Su, Guoyin Wang, Shi Wang, Jian Yang, Min Yang, Meng Cao, Xiang Yue, Zhaoxiang Zhang, Wangchunshu Zhou, Jiaheng Liu, Qunshu Lin, Wenhao Huang, Ge Zhang

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 109

**Links**: [Project Page](https://supergpqa.github.io/)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable proficiency in
mainstream academic disciplines such as mathematics, physics, and computer
science. However, human knowledge encompasses over 200 specialized disciplines,
far exceeding the scope of existing benchmarks. The capabilities of LLMs in
many of these specialized fields-particularly in light industry, agriculture,
and service-oriented disciplines-remain inadequately evaluated. To address this
gap, we present SuperGPQA, a comprehensive benchmark that evaluates
graduate-level knowledge and reasoning capabilities across 285 disciplines. Our
benchmark employs a novel Human-LLM collaborative filtering mechanism to
eliminate trivial or ambiguous questions through iterative refinement based on
both LLM responses and expert feedback. Our experimental results reveal
significant room for improvement in the performance of current state-of-the-art
LLMs across diverse knowledge domains (e.g., the reasoning-focused model
DeepSeek-R1 achieved the highest accuracy of 61.82% on SuperGPQA), highlighting
the considerable gap between current model capabilities and artificial general
intelligence. Additionally, we present comprehensive insights from our
management of a large-scale annotation process, involving over 80 expert
annotators and an interactive Human-LLM collaborative system, offering valuable
methodological guidance for future research initiatives of comparable scope.

---

## 4. [How Much Knowledge Can You Pack into a LoRA Adapter without Harming LLM?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14502)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14502](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14502)

**Authors**: Sergey Pletenev, Maria Marina, Daniil Moskovskiy, Vasily Konovalov, Pavel Braslavski, Alexander Panchenko, Mikhail Salnikov

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Mikhail Salnikov

**Upvotes**: 91

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/AIRI-Institute/knowledge-packing)

### Abstract

The performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) on many tasks is greatly
limited by the knowledge learned during pre-training and stored in the model's
parameters. Low-rank adaptation (LoRA) is a popular and efficient training
technique for updating or domain-specific adaptation of LLMs. In this study, we
investigate how new facts can be incorporated into the LLM using LoRA without
compromising the previously learned knowledge. We fine-tuned
Llama-3.1-8B-instruct using LoRA with varying amounts of new knowledge. Our
experiments have shown that the best results are obtained when the training
data contains a mixture of known and new facts. However, this approach is still
potentially harmful because the model's performance on external
question-answering benchmarks declines after such fine-tuning. When the
training data is biased towards certain entities, the model tends to regress to
few overrepresented answers. In addition, we found that the model becomes more
confident and refuses to provide an answer in only few cases. These findings
highlight the potential pitfalls of LoRA-based LLM updates and underscore the
importance of training data composition and tuning parameters to balance new
knowledge integration and general model capabilities.

---

## 5. [S*: Test Time Scaling for Code Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14382)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14382](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14382)

**Authors**: Dacheng Li, Shiyi Cao, Chengkun Cao, Xiuyu Li, Shangyin Tan, Kurt Keutzer, Jiarong Xing, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Ion Stoica

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 63

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NovaSky-AI/SkyThought) | [Project Page](https://novasky-ai.github.io/posts/S*/)

### Abstract

Increasing test-time compute for LLMs shows promise across domains but
remains underexplored in code generation, despite extensive study in math. In
this paper, we propose S*, the first hybrid test-time scaling framework that
substantially improves the coverage and selection accuracy of generated code.
S* extends the existing parallel scaling paradigm with sequential scaling to
push performance boundaries. It further leverages a novel selection mechanism
that adaptively generates distinguishing inputs for pairwise comparison,
combined with execution-grounded information to robustly identify correct
solutions. We evaluate across 12 Large Language Models and Large Reasoning
Model and show: (1) S* consistently improves performance across model families
and sizes, enabling a 3B model to outperform GPT-4o-mini; (2) S* enables
non-reasoning models to surpass reasoning models - GPT-4o-mini with S*
outperforms o1-preview by 3.7% on LiveCodeBench; (3) S* further boosts
state-of-the-art reasoning models - DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B with S*
achieves 85.7% on LiveCodeBench, approaching o1 (high) at 88.5%. Code will be
available under https://github.com/NovaSky-AI/SkyThought.

---

## 6. [Logic-RL: Unleashing LLM Reasoning with Rule-Based Reinforcement
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14768)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14768](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14768)

**Authors**: Tian Xie, Zitian Gao, Qingnan Ren, Haoming Luo, Yuqian Hong, Bryan Dai, Joey Zhou, Kai Qiu, Zhirong Wu, Chong Luo

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 47

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Unakar/Logic-RL)

### Abstract

Inspired by the success of DeepSeek-R1, we explore the potential of
rule-based reinforcement learning (RL) in large reasoning models. To analyze
reasoning dynamics, we use synthetic logic puzzles as training data due to
their controllable complexity and straightforward answer verification. We make
some key technical contributions that lead to effective and stable RL training:
a system prompt that emphasizes the thinking and answering process, a stringent
format reward function that penalizes outputs for taking shortcuts, and a
straightforward training recipe that achieves stable convergence. Our 7B model
develops advanced reasoning skills-such as reflection, verification, and
summarization-that are absent from the logic corpus. Remarkably, after training
on just 5K logic problems, it demonstrates generalization abilities to the
challenging math benchmarks AIME and AMC.

---

## 7. [Discovering highly efficient low-weight quantum error-correcting codes
  with reinforcement learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14372)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14372](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14372)

**Authors**: Austin Yubo He, Zi-Wen Liu

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Austin He

**Upvotes**: 36

### Abstract

The realization of scalable fault-tolerant quantum computing is expected to
hinge on quantum error-correcting codes. In the quest for more efficient
quantum fault tolerance, a critical code parameter is the weight of
measurements that extract information about errors to enable error correction:
as higher measurement weights require higher implementation costs and introduce
more errors, it is important in code design to optimize measurement weight.
This underlies the surging interest in quantum low-density parity-check (qLDPC)
codes, the study of which has primarily focused on the asymptotic
(large-code-limit) properties. In this work, we introduce a versatile and
computationally efficient approach to stabilizer code weight reduction based on
reinforcement learning (RL), which produces new low-weight codes that
substantially outperform the state of the art in practically relevant parameter
regimes, extending significantly beyond previously accessible small distances.
For example, our approach demonstrates savings in physical qubit overhead
compared to existing results by 1 to 2 orders of magnitude for weight 6 codes
and brings the overhead into a feasible range for near-future experiments. We
also investigate the interplay between code parameters using our RL framework,
offering new insights into the potential efficiency and power of practically
viable coding strategies. Overall, our results demonstrate how RL can
effectively advance the crucial yet challenging problem of quantum code
discovery and thereby facilitate a faster path to the practical implementation
of fault-tolerant quantum technologies.

---

## 8. [PC-Agent: A Hierarchical Multi-Agent Collaboration Framework for Complex
  Task Automation on PC](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14282)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14282](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14282)

**Authors**: Haowei Liu, Xi Zhang, Haiyang Xu, Yuyang Wanyan, Junyang Wang, Ming Yan, Ji Zhang, Chunfeng Yuan, Weiming Hu, Fei Huang

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by xuhaiyang

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

In the field of MLLM-based GUI agents, compared to smartphones, the PC
scenario not only features a more complex interactive environment, but also
involves more intricate intra- and inter-app workflows. To address these
issues, we propose a hierarchical agent framework named PC-Agent. Specifically,
from the perception perspective, we devise an Active Perception Module (APM) to
overcome the inadequate abilities of current MLLMs in perceiving screenshot
content. From the decision-making perspective, to handle complex user
instructions and interdependent subtasks more effectively, we propose a
hierarchical multi-agent collaboration architecture that decomposes
decision-making processes into Instruction-Subtask-Action levels. Within this
architecture, three agents (i.e., Manager, Progress and Decision) are set up
for instruction decomposition, progress tracking and step-by-step
decision-making respectively. Additionally, a Reflection agent is adopted to
enable timely bottom-up error feedback and adjustment. We also introduce a new
benchmark PC-Eval with 25 real-world complex instructions. Empirical results on
PC-Eval show that our PC-Agent achieves a 32% absolute improvement of task
success rate over previous state-of-the-art methods. The code will be publicly
available.

---

## 9. [S^2R: Teaching LLMs to Self-verify and Self-correct via Reinforcement
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.12853)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.12853](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12853)

**Authors**: Ruotian Ma, Peisong Wang, Cheng Liu, Xingyan Liu, Jiaqi Chen, Bang Zhang, Xin Zhou, Nan Du, Jia Li

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Ruotian Ma

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nineabyss/s2r)

### Abstract

Recent studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of LLM test-time scaling.
However, existing approaches to incentivize LLMs' deep thinking abilities
generally require large-scale data or significant training efforts. Meanwhile,
it remains unclear how to improve the thinking abilities of less powerful base
models. In this work, we introduce S^2R, an efficient framework that enhances
LLM reasoning by teaching models to self-verify and self-correct during
inference. Specifically, we first initialize LLMs with iterative
self-verification and self-correction behaviors through supervised fine-tuning
on carefully curated data. The self-verification and self-correction skills are
then further strengthened by both outcome-level and process-level reinforcement
learning, with minimized resource requirements, enabling the model to
adaptively refine its reasoning process during inference. Our results
demonstrate that, with only 3.1k self-verifying and self-correcting behavior
initialization samples, Qwen2.5-math-7B achieves an accuracy improvement from
51.0\% to 81.6\%, outperforming models trained on an equivalent amount of
long-CoT distilled data. Extensive experiments and analysis based on three base
models across both in-domain and out-of-domain benchmarks validate the
effectiveness of S^2R. Our code and data are available at
https://github.com/NineAbyss/S2R.

---

## 10. [Does Time Have Its Place? Temporal Heads: Where Language Models Recall
  Time-specific Information](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14258)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14258](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14258)

**Authors**: Yein Park, Chanwoong Yoon, Jungwoo Park, Minbyul Jeong, Jaewoo Kang

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Minbyul Jeong

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dmis-lab/TemporalHead)

### Abstract

While the ability of language models to elicit facts has been widely
investigated, how they handle temporally changing facts remains underexplored.
We discover Temporal Heads, specific attention heads primarily responsible for
processing temporal knowledge through circuit analysis. We confirm that these
heads are present across multiple models, though their specific locations may
vary, and their responses differ depending on the type of knowledge and its
corresponding years. Disabling these heads degrades the model's ability to
recall time-specific knowledge while maintaining its general capabilities
without compromising time-invariant and question-answering performances.
Moreover, the heads are activated not only numeric conditions ("In 2004") but
also textual aliases ("In the year ..."), indicating that they encode a
temporal dimension beyond simple numerical representation. Furthermore, we
expand the potential of our findings by demonstrating how temporal knowledge
can be edited by adjusting the values of these heads.

---

## 11. [LongWriter-V: Enabling Ultra-Long and High-Fidelity Generation in
  Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14834)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14834](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14834)

**Authors**: Shangqing Tu, Yucheng Wang, Daniel Zhang-Li, Yushi Bai, Jifan Yu, Yuhao Wu, Lei Hou, Huiqin Liu, Zhiyuan Liu, Bin Xu, Juanzi Li

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Shangqing Tu

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thu-keg/longwriter-v)

### Abstract

Existing Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) can process inputs with context
lengths up to 128k visual and text tokens, yet they struggle to generate
coherent outputs beyond 1,000 words. We find that the primary limitation is the
absence of long output examples during supervised fine-tuning (SFT). To tackle
this issue, we introduce LongWriter-V-22k, a SFT dataset comprising 22,158
examples, each with multiple input images, an instruction, and corresponding
outputs ranging from 0 to 10,000 words. Moreover, to achieve long outputs that
maintain high-fidelity to the input images, we employ Direct Preference
Optimization (DPO) to the SFT model. Given the high cost of collecting human
feedback for lengthy outputs (e.g., 3,000 words), we propose IterDPO, which
breaks long outputs into segments and uses iterative corrections to form
preference pairs with the original outputs. Additionally, we develop
MMLongBench-Write, a benchmark featuring six tasks to evaluate the
long-generation capabilities of VLMs. Our 7B parameter model, trained with
LongWriter-V-22k and IterDPO, achieves impressive performance on this
benchmark, outperforming larger proprietary models like GPT-4o. Code and data:
https://github.com/THU-KEG/LongWriter-V

---

## 12. [How to Get Your LLM to Generate Challenging Problems for Evaluation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14678)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14678](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14678)

**Authors**: Arkil Patel, Siva Reddy, Dzmitry Bahdanau

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Arkil Patel

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mcgill-nlp/chase)

### Abstract

The pace of evolution of Large Language Models (LLMs) necessitates new
approaches for rigorous and comprehensive evaluation. Traditional human
annotation is increasingly impracticable due to the complexities and costs
involved in generating high-quality, challenging problems. In this work, we
introduce CHASE, a unified framework to synthetically generate challenging
problems using LLMs without human involvement. For a given task, our approach
builds a hard problem in a bottom-up manner from simpler components. Moreover,
our framework decomposes the generation process into independently verifiable
sub-tasks, thereby ensuring a high level of quality and correctness. We
implement CHASE to create evaluation benchmarks across three diverse domains:
(1) document-based question answering, (2) repository-level code completion,
and (3) math reasoning. The performance of state-of-the-art LLMs on these
synthetic benchmarks lies in the range of 40-60% accuracy, thereby
demonstrating the effectiveness of our framework at generating challenging
problems. We publicly release our benchmarks and code.

---

## 13. [Dynamic Concepts Personalization from Single Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14844)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14844](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14844)

**Authors**: Rameen Abdal, Or Patashnik, Ivan Skorokhodov, Willi Menapace, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Sergey Tulyakov, Daniel Cohen-Or, Kfir Aberman

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [Project Page](https://snap-research.github.io/dynamic_concepts/)

### Abstract

Personalizing generative text-to-image models has seen remarkable progress,
but extending this personalization to text-to-video models presents unique
challenges. Unlike static concepts, personalizing text-to-video models has the
potential to capture dynamic concepts, i.e., entities defined not only by their
appearance but also by their motion. In this paper, we introduce
Set-and-Sequence, a novel framework for personalizing Diffusion Transformers
(DiTs)-based generative video models with dynamic concepts. Our approach
imposes a spatio-temporal weight space within an architecture that does not
explicitly separate spatial and temporal features. This is achieved in two key
stages. First, we fine-tune Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) layers using an
unordered set of frames from the video to learn an identity LoRA basis that
represents the appearance, free from temporal interference. In the second
stage, with the identity LoRAs frozen, we augment their coefficients with
Motion Residuals and fine-tune them on the full video sequence, capturing
motion dynamics. Our Set-and-Sequence framework results in a spatio-temporal
weight space that effectively embeds dynamic concepts into the video model's
output domain, enabling unprecedented editability and compositionality while
setting a new benchmark for personalizing dynamic concepts.

---

## 14. [AlphaMaze: Enhancing Large Language Models' Spatial Intelligence via
  GRPO](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14669)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14669](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14669)

**Authors**: Alan Dao, Dinh Bach Vu

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/janhq/visual-thinker) | [Project Page](https://alphamaze.menlo.ai/)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities in
language processing, yet they often struggle with tasks requiring genuine
visual spatial reasoning. In this paper, we introduce a novel two-stage
training framework designed to equip standard LLMs with visual reasoning
abilities for maze navigation. First, we leverage Supervised Fine Tuning (SFT)
on a curated dataset of tokenized maze representations to teach the model to
predict step-by-step movement commands. Next, we apply Group Relative Policy
Optimization (GRPO)-a technique used in DeepSeekR1-with a carefully crafted
reward function to refine the model's sequential decision-making and encourage
emergent chain-of-thought behaviors. Experimental results on synthetically
generated mazes show that while a baseline model fails to navigate the maze,
the SFT-trained model achieves 86% accuracy, and further GRPO fine-tuning
boosts accuracy to 93%. Qualitative analyses reveal that GRPO fosters more
robust and self-corrective reasoning, highlighting the potential of our
approach to bridge the gap between language models and visual spatial tasks.
These findings offer promising implications for applications in robotics,
autonomous navigation, and other domains that require integrated visual and
sequential reasoning.

---

## 15. [Scaling Text-Rich Image Understanding via Code-Guided Synthetic
  Multimodal Data Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14846)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14846](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14846)

**Authors**: Yue Yang, Ajay Patel, Matt Deitke, Tanmay Gupta, Luca Weihs, Andrew Head, Mark Yatskar, Chris Callison-Burch, Ranjay Krishna, Aniruddha Kembhavi, Christopher Clark

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/allenai/pixmo-docs) | [Project Page](https://yueyang1996.github.io/cosyn/)

### Abstract

Reasoning about images with rich text, such as charts and documents, is a
critical application of vision-language models (VLMs). However, VLMs often
struggle in these domains due to the scarcity of diverse text-rich
vision-language data. To address this challenge, we present CoSyn, a framework
that leverages the coding capabilities of text-only large language models
(LLMs) to automatically create synthetic text-rich multimodal data. Given input
text describing a target domain (e.g., "nutrition fact labels"), CoSyn prompts
an LLM to generate code (Python, HTML, LaTeX, etc.) for rendering synthetic
images. With the underlying code as textual representations of the synthetic
images, CoSyn can generate high-quality instruction-tuning data, again relying
on a text-only LLM. Using CoSyn, we constructed a dataset comprising 400K
images and 2.7M rows of vision-language instruction-tuning data. Comprehensive
experiments on seven benchmarks demonstrate that models trained on our
synthetic data achieve state-of-the-art performance among competitive
open-source models, including Llama 3.2, and surpass proprietary models such as
GPT-4V and Gemini 1.5 Flash. Furthermore, CoSyn can produce synthetic pointing
data, enabling VLMs to ground information within input images, showcasing its
potential for developing multimodal agents capable of acting in real-world
environments.

---

## 16. [LServe: Efficient Long-sequence LLM Serving with Unified Sparse
  Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14866)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14866](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14866)

**Authors**: Shang Yang, Junxian Guo, Haotian Tang, Qinghao Hu, Guangxuan Xiao, Jiaming Tang, Yujun Lin, Zhijian Liu, Yao Lu, Song Han

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by vansin

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mit-han-lab/omniserve) | [Project Page](https://hanlab.mit.edu/projects/lserve)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable potential in processing
long sequences, yet efficiently serving these long-context models remains
challenging due to the quadratic computational complexity of attention in the
prefilling stage and the large memory footprint of the KV cache in the decoding
stage. To address these issues, we introduce LServe, an efficient system that
accelerates long-sequence LLM serving via hybrid sparse attention. This method
unifies different hardware-friendly, structured sparsity patterns for both
prefilling and decoding attention into a single framework, where computations
on less important tokens are skipped block-wise. LServe demonstrates the
compatibility of static and dynamic sparsity in long-context LLM attention.
This design enables multiplicative speedups by combining these optimizations.
Specifically, we convert half of the attention heads to nearly free streaming
heads in both the prefilling and decoding stages. Additionally, we find that
only a constant number of KV pages is required to preserve long-context
capabilities, irrespective of context length. We then design a hierarchical KV
page selection policy that dynamically prunes KV pages based on query-centric
similarity. On average, LServe accelerates LLM prefilling by up to 2.9x and
decoding by 1.3-2.1x over vLLM, maintaining long-context accuracy. Code is
released at https://github.com/mit-han-lab/omniserve.

---

## 17. [From RAG to Memory: Non-Parametric Continual Learning for Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14802)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14802](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14802)

**Authors**: Bernal Jiménez Gutiérrez, Yiheng Shu, Weijian Qi, Sizhe Zhou, Yu Su

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Yiheng Shu

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OSU-NLP-Group/HippoRAG)

### Abstract

Our ability to continuously acquire, organize, and leverage knowledge is a
key feature of human intelligence that AI systems must approximate to unlock
their full potential. Given the challenges in continual learning with large
language models (LLMs), retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has become the
dominant way to introduce new information. However, its reliance on vector
retrieval hinders its ability to mimic the dynamic and interconnected nature of
human long-term memory. Recent RAG approaches augment vector embeddings with
various structures like knowledge graphs to address some of these gaps, namely
sense-making and associativity. However, their performance on more basic
factual memory tasks drops considerably below standard RAG. We address this
unintended deterioration and propose HippoRAG 2, a framework that outperforms
standard RAG comprehensively on factual, sense-making, and associative memory
tasks. HippoRAG 2 builds upon the Personalized PageRank algorithm used in
HippoRAG and enhances it with deeper passage integration and more effective
online use of an LLM. This combination pushes this RAG system closer to the
effectiveness of human long-term memory, achieving a 7% improvement in
associative memory tasks over the state-of-the-art embedding model while also
exhibiting superior factual knowledge and sense-making memory capabilities.
This work paves the way for non-parametric continual learning for LLMs. Our
code and data will be released at https://github.com/OSU-NLP-Group/HippoRAG.

---

## 18. [RelaCtrl: Relevance-Guided Efficient Control for Diffusion Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14377)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14377](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14377)

**Authors**: Ke Cao, Jing Wang, Ao Ma, Jiasong Feng, Zhanjie Zhang, Xuanhua He, Shanyuan Liu, Bo Cheng, Dawei Leng, Yuhui Yin, Jie Zhang

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [Project Page](https://relactrl.github.io/RelaCtrl/)

### Abstract

The Diffusion Transformer plays a pivotal role in advancing text-to-image and
text-to-video generation, owing primarily to its inherent scalability. However,
existing controlled diffusion transformer methods incur significant parameter
and computational overheads and suffer from inefficient resource allocation due
to their failure to account for the varying relevance of control information
across different transformer layers. To address this, we propose the
Relevance-Guided Efficient Controllable Generation framework, RelaCtrl,
enabling efficient and resource-optimized integration of control signals into
the Diffusion Transformer. First, we evaluate the relevance of each layer in
the Diffusion Transformer to the control information by assessing the
"ControlNet Relevance Score"-i.e., the impact of skipping each control layer on
both the quality of generation and the control effectiveness during inference.
Based on the strength of the relevance, we then tailor the positioning,
parameter scale, and modeling capacity of the control layers to reduce
unnecessary parameters and redundant computations. Additionally, to further
improve efficiency, we replace the self-attention and FFN in the commonly used
copy block with the carefully designed Two-Dimensional Shuffle Mixer (TDSM),
enabling efficient implementation of both the token mixer and channel mixer.
Both qualitative and quantitative experimental results demonstrate that our
approach achieves superior performance with only 15% of the parameters and
computational complexity compared to PixArt-delta. More examples are available
at https://relactrl.github.io/RelaCtrl/.

---

## 19. [CLIPPER: Compression enables long-context synthetic data generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14854)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14854](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14854)

**Authors**: Chau Minh Pham, Yapei Chang, Mohit Iyyer

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Chau Minh Pham

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/chtmp223/clipper)

### Abstract

LLM developers are increasingly reliant on synthetic data, but generating
high-quality data for complex long-context reasoning tasks remains challenging.
We introduce CLIPPER, a compression-based approach for generating synthetic
data tailored to narrative claim verification - a task that requires reasoning
over a book to verify a given claim. Instead of generating claims directly from
the raw text of the book, which results in artifact-riddled claims, CLIPPER
first compresses the book into chapter outlines and book summaries and then
uses these intermediate representations to generate complex claims and
corresponding chain-of-thoughts. Compared to naive approaches, CLIPPER produces
claims that are more valid, grounded, and complex. Using CLIPPER, we construct
a dataset of 19K synthetic book claims paired with their source texts and
chain-of-thought reasoning, and use it to fine-tune three open-weight models.
Our best model achieves breakthrough results on narrative claim verification
(from 28% to 76% accuracy on our test set) and sets a new state-of-the-art for
sub-10B models on the NoCha leaderboard. Further analysis shows that our models
generate more detailed and grounded chain-of-thought reasoning while also
improving performance on other narrative understanding tasks (e.g.,
NarrativeQA).

---

## 20. [NAVIG: Natural Language-guided Analysis with Vision Language Models for
  Image Geo-localization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14638)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14638](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14638)

**Authors**: Zheyuan Zhang, Runze Li, Tasnim Kabir, Jordan Boyd-Graber

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Zheyuan Zhang

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sparrowzheyuan18/navig)

### Abstract

Image geo-localization is the task of predicting the specific location of an
image and requires complex reasoning across visual, geographical, and cultural
contexts. While prior Vision Language Models (VLMs) have the best accuracy at
this task, there is a dearth of high-quality datasets and models for analytical
reasoning. We first create NaviClues, a high-quality dataset derived from
GeoGuessr, a popular geography game, to supply examples of expert reasoning
from language. Using this dataset, we present Navig, a comprehensive image
geo-localization framework integrating global and fine-grained image
information. By reasoning with language, Navig reduces the average distance
error by 14% compared to previous state-of-the-art models while requiring fewer
than 1000 training samples. Our dataset and code are available at
https://github.com/SparrowZheyuan18/Navig/.

---

## 21. [Enhancing Cognition and Explainability of Multimodal Foundation Models
  with Self-Synthesized Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14044)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14044](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14044)

**Authors**: Yucheng Shi, Quanzheng Li, Jin Sun, Xiang Li, Ninghao Liu

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Yucheng SHi

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sycny/selfsynthx)

### Abstract

Large multimodal models (LMMs) have shown impressive capabilities in a wide
range of visual tasks. However, they often struggle with fine-grained visual
reasoning, failing to identify domain-specific objectives and provide
justifiable explanations for their predictions. To address this, we propose a
novel visual rejection sampling framework to improve the cognition and
explainability of LMMs using self-synthesized data. Specifically, visual
fine-tuning requires images, queries, and target answers. Our approach begins
by synthesizing interpretable answers that include human-verifiable visual
features. These features are based on expert-defined concepts, carefully
selected based on their alignment with the image content. After each round of
fine-tuning, we apply a reward model-free filtering mechanism to select the
highest-quality interpretable answers for the next round of tuning. This
iterative process of data synthesis and fine-tuning progressively improves the
model's ability to generate accurate and reasonable explanations. Experimental
results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in improving both the
accuracy and explainability of specialized visual classification tasks.

---

## 22. [Multimodal RewardBench: Holistic Evaluation of Reward Models for Vision
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14191)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14191](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14191)

**Authors**: Michihiro Yasunaga, Luke Zettlemoyer, Marjan Ghazvininejad

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Michihiro Yasunaga

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/multimodal_rewardbench)

### Abstract

Reward models play an essential role in training vision-language models
(VLMs) by assessing output quality to enable aligning with human preferences.
Despite their importance, the research community lacks comprehensive open
benchmarks for evaluating multimodal reward models in VLMs. To address this
gap, we introduce Multimodal RewardBench, an expert-annotated benchmark
covering six domains: general correctness, preference, knowledge, reasoning,
safety, and visual question-answering. Our dataset comprises 5,211 annotated
(prompt, chosen response, rejected response) triplets collected from various
VLMs. In evaluating a range of VLM judges, we find that even the top-performing
models, Gemini 1.5 Pro and Claude 3.5 Sonnet, achieve only 72% overall
accuracy. Notably, most models struggle in the reasoning and safety domains.
These findings suggest that Multimodal RewardBench offers a challenging testbed
for advancing reward model development across multiple domains. We release the
benchmark at https://github.com/facebookresearch/multimodal_rewardbench.

---

## 23. [Generating Skyline Datasets for Data Science Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.11262)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.11262](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11262)

**Authors**: Mengying Wang, Hanchao Ma, Yiyang Bian, Yangxin Fan, Yinghui Wu

**Published**: 2025-02-16 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Mengying Wang

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Preparing high-quality datasets required by various data-driven AI and
machine learning models has become a cornerstone task in data-driven analysis.
Conventional data discovery methods typically integrate datasets towards a
single pre-defined quality measure that may lead to bias for downstream tasks.
This paper introduces MODis, a framework that discovers datasets by optimizing
multiple user-defined, model-performance measures. Given a set of data sources
and a model, MODis selects and integrates data sources into a skyline dataset,
over which the model is expected to have the desired performance in all the
performance measures. We formulate MODis as a multi-goal finite state
transducer, and derive three feasible algorithms to generate skyline datasets.
Our first algorithm adopts a "reduce-from-universal" strategy, that starts with
a universal schema and iteratively prunes unpromising data. Our second
algorithm further reduces the cost with a bi-directional strategy that
interleaves data augmentation and reduction. We also introduce a
diversification algorithm to mitigate the bias in skyline datasets. We
experimentally verify the efficiency and effectiveness of our skyline data
discovery algorithms, and showcase their applications in optimizing data
science pipelines.

---

## 24. [LLM-based User Profile Management for Recommender System](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14541)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14541](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14541)

**Authors**: Seunghwan Bang, Hwanjun Song

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Seunghwan Bang

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

The rapid advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has opened new
opportunities in recommender systems by enabling zero-shot recommendation
without conventional training. Despite their potential, most existing works
rely solely on users' purchase histories, leaving significant room for
improvement by incorporating user-generated textual data, such as reviews and
product descriptions. Addressing this gap, we propose PURE, a novel LLM-based
recommendation framework that builds and maintains evolving user profiles by
systematically extracting and summarizing key information from user reviews.
PURE consists of three core components: a Review Extractor for identifying user
preferences and key product features, a Profile Updater for refining and
updating user profiles, and a Recommender for generating personalized
recommendations using the most current profile. To evaluate PURE, we introduce
a continuous sequential recommendation task that reflects real-world scenarios
by adding reviews over time and updating predictions incrementally. Our
experimental results on Amazon datasets demonstrate that PURE outperforms
existing LLM-based methods, effectively leveraging long-term user information
while managing token limitations.

---

## 25. [Generating π-Functional Molecules Using STGG+ with Active Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14842)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14842](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14842)

**Authors**: Alexia Jolicoeur-Martineau, Yan Zhang, Boris Knyazev, Aristide Baratin, Cheng-Hao Liu

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Niels Rogge

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SamsungSAILMontreal/STGG-AL)

### Abstract

Generating novel molecules with out-of-distribution properties is a major
challenge in molecular discovery. While supervised learning methods generate
high-quality molecules similar to those in a dataset, they struggle to
generalize to out-of-distribution properties. Reinforcement learning can
explore new chemical spaces but often conducts 'reward-hacking' and generates
non-synthesizable molecules. In this work, we address this problem by
integrating a state-of-the-art supervised learning method, STGG+, in an active
learning loop. Our approach iteratively generates, evaluates, and fine-tunes
STGG+ to continuously expand its knowledge. We denote this approach STGG+AL. We
apply STGG+AL to the design of organic pi-functional materials, specifically
two challenging tasks: 1) generating highly absorptive molecules characterized
by high oscillator strength and 2) designing absorptive molecules with
reasonable oscillator strength in the near-infrared (NIR) range. The generated
molecules are validated and rationalized in-silico with time-dependent density
functional theory. Our results demonstrate that our method is highly effective
in generating novel molecules with high oscillator strength, contrary to
existing methods such as reinforcement learning (RL) methods. We open-source
our active-learning code along with our Conjugated-xTB dataset containing 2.9
million pi-conjugated molecules and the function for approximating the
oscillator strength and absorption wavelength (based on sTDA-xTB).

---

## 26. [Symmetrical Visual Contrastive Optimization: Aligning Vision-Language
  Models with Minimal Contrastive Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13928)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13928](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13928)

**Authors**: Shengguang Wu, Fan-Yun Sun, Kaiyue Wen, Nick Haber

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Shengguang Wu

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/s-vco/s-vco) | [Project Page](https://s-vco.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent studies have shown that Large Vision-Language Models (VLMs) tend to
neglect image content and over-rely on language-model priors, resulting in
errors in visually grounded tasks and hallucinations. We hypothesize that this
issue arises because existing VLMs are not explicitly trained to generate texts
that are accurately grounded in fine-grained image details. To enhance visual
feedback during VLM training, we propose S-VCO (Symmetrical Visual Contrastive
Optimization), a novel finetuning objective that steers the model toward
capturing important visual details and aligning them with corresponding text
tokens. To further facilitate this detailed alignment, we introduce MVC, a
paired image-text dataset built by automatically filtering and augmenting
visual counterfactual data to challenge the model with hard contrastive cases
involving Minimal Visual Contrasts. Experiments show that our method
consistently improves VLM performance across diverse benchmarks covering
various abilities and domains, achieving up to a 22% reduction in
hallucinations, and significant gains in vision-centric and general tasks.
Notably, these improvements become increasingly pronounced in benchmarks with
higher visual dependency. In short, S-VCO offers a significant enhancement of
VLM's visually-dependent task performance while retaining or even improving the
model's general abilities. We opensource our code at https://s-vco.github.io/

---

## 27. [Unstructured Evidence Attribution for Long Context Query Focused
  Summarization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14409)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14409](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14409)

**Authors**: Dustin Wright, Zain Muhammad Mujahid, Lu Wang, Isabelle Augenstein, David Jurgens

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Dustin Wright

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dwright37/unstructured-evidence-sunset)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are capable of generating coherent summaries
from very long contexts given a user query. Extracting and properly citing
evidence spans could help improve the transparency and reliability of these
summaries. At the same time, LLMs suffer from positional biases in terms of
which information they understand and attend to, which could affect evidence
citation. Whereas previous work has focused on evidence citation with
predefined levels of granularity (e.g. sentence, paragraph, document, etc.), we
propose the task of long-context query focused summarization with unstructured
evidence citation. We show how existing systems struggle to generate and
properly cite unstructured evidence from their context, and that evidence tends
to be "lost-in-the-middle". To help mitigate this, we create the Summaries with
Unstructured Evidence Text dataset (SUnsET), a synthetic dataset generated
using a novel domain-agnostic pipeline which can be used as supervision to
adapt LLMs to this task. We demonstrate across 5 LLMs of different sizes and 4
datasets with varying document types and lengths that LLMs adapted with SUnsET
data generate more relevant and factually consistent evidence than their base
models, extract evidence from more diverse locations in their context, and can
generate more relevant and consistent summaries.

---

## 28. [Geolocation with Real Human Gameplay Data: A Large-Scale Dataset and
  Human-Like Reasoning Framework](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13759)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13759](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13759)

**Authors**: Zirui Song, Jingpu Yang, Jonathan Tonglet, Tao Cheng, Meng Fang, Iryna Gurevych, Xiuying Chen

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Zirui Song

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/datasets/ShirohAO/tuxun/tree/main)

### Abstract

Geolocation, the task of identifying an image's location, requires complex
reasoning and is crucial for navigation, monitoring, and cultural preservation.
However, current methods often produce coarse, imprecise, and non-interpretable
localization. A major challenge lies in the quality and scale of existing
geolocation datasets. These datasets are typically small-scale and
automatically constructed, leading to noisy data and inconsistent task
difficulty, with images that either reveal answers too easily or lack
sufficient clues for reliable inference. To address these challenges, we
introduce a comprehensive geolocation framework with three key components:
GeoComp, a large-scale dataset; GeoCoT, a novel reasoning method; and GeoEval,
an evaluation metric, collectively designed to address critical challenges and
drive advancements in geolocation research. At the core of this framework is
GeoComp (Geolocation Competition Dataset), a large-scale dataset collected from
a geolocation game platform involving 740K users over two years. It comprises
25 million entries of metadata and 3 million geo-tagged locations spanning much
of the globe, with each location annotated thousands to tens of thousands of
times by human users. The dataset offers diverse difficulty levels for detailed
analysis and highlights key gaps in current models. Building on this dataset,
we propose Geographical Chain-of-Thought (GeoCoT), a novel multi-step reasoning
framework designed to enhance the reasoning capabilities of Large Vision Models
(LVMs) in geolocation tasks. GeoCoT improves performance by integrating
contextual and spatial cues through a multi-step process that mimics human
geolocation reasoning. Finally, using the GeoEval metric, we demonstrate that
GeoCoT significantly boosts geolocation accuracy by up to 25% while enhancing
interpretability.

---

## 29. [How Much Do LLMs Hallucinate across Languages? On Multilingual
  Estimation of LLM Hallucination in the Wild](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.12769)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.12769](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12769)

**Authors**: Saad Obaid ul Islam, Anne Lauscher, Goran Glavaš

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-21 by Saad Obaid ul Islam

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/WorldHellow/mHallucinations-LLM)

### Abstract

In the age of misinformation, hallucination -- the tendency of Large Language
Models (LLMs) to generate non-factual or unfaithful responses -- represents the
main risk for their global utility. Despite LLMs becoming increasingly
multilingual, the vast majority of research on detecting and quantifying LLM
hallucination are (a) English-centric and (b) focus on machine translation (MT)
and summarization, tasks that are less common ``in the wild'' than open
information seeking. In contrast, we aim to quantify the extent of LLM
hallucination across languages in knowledge-intensive long-form question
answering. To this end, we train a multilingual hallucination detection model
and conduct a large-scale study across 30 languages and 6 open-source LLM
families. We start from an English hallucination detection dataset and rely on
MT to generate (noisy) training data in other languages. We also manually
annotate gold data for five high-resource languages; we then demonstrate, for
these languages, that the estimates of hallucination rates are similar between
silver (LLM-generated) and gold test sets, validating the use of silver data
for estimating hallucination rates for other languages. For the final rates
estimation, we build a knowledge-intensive QA dataset for 30 languages with
LLM-generated prompts and Wikipedia articles as references. We find that, while
LLMs generate longer responses with more hallucinated tokens for
higher-resource languages, there is no correlation between length-normalized
hallucination rates of languages and their digital representation. Further, we
find that smaller LLMs exhibit larger hallucination rates than larger models.

---
