# Daily Papers - 2025-02-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-02-10)

Total papers: 27

---

## 1. [Scaling up Test-Time Compute with Latent Reasoning: A Recurrent Depth
  Approach](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.05171)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.05171](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05171)

**Authors**: Jonas Geiping, Sean McLeish, Neel Jain, John Kirchenbauer, Siddharth Singh, Brian R. Bartoldson, Bhavya Kailkhura, Abhinav Bhatele, Tom Goldstein

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 153

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/seal-rg/recurrent-pretraining)

### Abstract

We study a novel language model architecture that is capable of scaling
test-time computation by implicitly reasoning in latent space. Our model works
by iterating a recurrent block, thereby unrolling to arbitrary depth at
test-time. This stands in contrast to mainstream reasoning models that scale up
compute by producing more tokens. Unlike approaches based on chain-of-thought,
our approach does not require any specialized training data, can work with
small context windows, and can capture types of reasoning that are not easily
represented in words. We scale a proof-of-concept model to 3.5 billion
parameters and 800 billion tokens. We show that the resulting model can improve
its performance on reasoning benchmarks, sometimes dramatically, up to a
computation load equivalent to 50 billion parameters.

---

## 2. [Goku: Flow Based Video Generative Foundation Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04896)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04896](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04896)

**Authors**: Shoufa Chen, Chongjian Ge, Yuqi Zhang, Yida Zhang, Fengda Zhu, Hao Yang, Hongxiang Hao, Hui Wu, Zhichao Lai, Yifei Hu, Ting-Che Lin, Shilong Zhang, Fu Li, Chuan Li, Xing Wang, Yanghua Peng, Peize Sun, Ping Luo, Yi Jiang, Zehuan Yuan, Bingyue Peng, Xiaobing Liu

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 106

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/saiyan-world/goku) | [Project Page](https://saiyan-world.github.io/goku/)

### Abstract

This paper introduces Goku, a state-of-the-art family of joint
image-and-video generation models leveraging rectified flow Transformers to
achieve industry-leading performance. We detail the foundational elements
enabling high-quality visual generation, including the data curation pipeline,
model architecture design, flow formulation, and advanced infrastructure for
efficient and robust large-scale training. The Goku models demonstrate superior
performance in both qualitative and quantitative evaluations, setting new
benchmarks across major tasks. Specifically, Goku achieves 0.76 on GenEval and
83.65 on DPG-Bench for text-to-image generation, and 84.85 on VBench for
text-to-video tasks. We believe that this work provides valuable insights and
practical advancements for the research community in developing joint
image-and-video generation models.

---

## 3. [VideoRoPE: What Makes for Good Video Rotary Position Embedding?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.05173)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.05173](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05173)

**Authors**: Xilin Wei, Xiaoran Liu, Yuhang Zang, Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Yuhang Cao, Jian Tong, Haodong Duan, Qipeng Guo, Jiaqi Wang, Xipeng Qiu, Dahua Lin

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Jiaqi Wang

**Upvotes**: 64

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Wiselnn570/VideoRoPE) | [Project Page](https://wiselnn570.github.io/VideoRoPE/)

### Abstract

While Rotary Position Embedding (RoPE) and its variants are widely adopted
for their long-context capabilities, the extension of the 1D RoPE to video,
with its complex spatio-temporal structure, remains an open challenge. This
work first introduces a comprehensive analysis that identifies four key
characteristics essential for the effective adaptation of RoPE to video, which
have not been fully considered in prior work. As part of our analysis, we
introduce a challenging V-NIAH-D (Visual Needle-In-A-Haystack with Distractors)
task, which adds periodic distractors into V-NIAH. The V-NIAH-D task
demonstrates that previous RoPE variants, lacking appropriate temporal
dimension allocation, are easily misled by distractors. Based on our analysis,
we introduce VideoRoPE, with a 3D structure designed to
preserve spatio-temporal relationships. VideoRoPE features
low-frequency temporal allocation to mitigate periodic oscillations, a
diagonal layout to maintain spatial symmetry, and adjustable
temporal spacing to decouple temporal and spatial indexing. VideoRoPE
consistently surpasses previous RoPE variants, across diverse downstream tasks
such as long video retrieval, video understanding, and video hallucination. Our
code will be available at
https://github.com/Wiselnn570/VideoRoPE{https://github.com/Wiselnn570/VideoRoPE}.

---

## 4. [Fast Video Generation with Sliding Tile Attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04507)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04507](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04507)

**Authors**: Peiyuan Zhang, Yongqi Chen, Runlong Su, Hangliang Ding, Ion Stoica, Zhenghong Liu, Hao Zhang

**Published**: 2025-02-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Zhang Peiyuan

**Upvotes**: 51

### Abstract

Diffusion Transformers (DiTs) with 3D full attention power state-of-the-art
video generation, but suffer from prohibitive compute cost -- when generating
just a 5-second 720P video, attention alone takes 800 out of 945 seconds of
total inference time. This paper introduces sliding tile attention (STA) to
address this challenge. STA leverages the observation that attention scores in
pretrained video diffusion models predominantly concentrate within localized 3D
windows. By sliding and attending over the local spatial-temporal region, STA
eliminates redundancy from full attention. Unlike traditional token-wise
sliding window attention (SWA), STA operates tile-by-tile with a novel
hardware-aware sliding window design, preserving expressiveness while being
hardware-efficient. With careful kernel-level optimizations, STA offers the
first efficient 2D/3D sliding-window-like attention implementation, achieving
58.79% MFU. Precisely, STA accelerates attention by 2.8-17x over
FlashAttention-2 (FA2) and 1.6-10x over FlashAttention-3 (FA3). On the leading
video DiT, HunyuanVideo, STA reduces end-to-end latency from 945s (FA3) to 685s
without quality degradation, requiring no training. Enabling finetuning further
lowers latency to 268s with only a 0.09% drop on VBench.

---

## 5. [QuEST: Stable Training of LLMs with 1-Bit Weights and Activations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.05003)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.05003](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05003)

**Organization**:  IST Austria Distributed Algorithms and Systems Lab

**Authors**: Andrei Panferov, Jiale Chen, Soroush Tabesh, Roberto L. Castro, Mahdi Nikdan, Dan Alistarh

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Alistarh

**Upvotes**: 44

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/IST-DASLab/QuEST) | [Project Page](https://icml.cc/virtual/2025/poster/45754)

### Abstract

One approach to reducing the massive costs of large language models (LLMs) is
the use of quantized or sparse representations for training or deployment.
While post-training compression methods are very popular, the question of
obtaining even more accurate compressed models by directly training over such
representations, i.e., Quantization-Aware Training (QAT), is still open: for
example, a recent study (arXiv:2411.04330v2) put the "optimal" bit-width at
which models can be trained using QAT, while staying accuracy-competitive with
standard FP16/BF16 precision, at 8-bits weights and activations.
  We advance this state-of-the-art via a new method called QuEST, which is
Pareto-competitive with FP16, i.e., it provides better accuracy at lower model
size, while training models with weights and activations in 4-bits or less.
Moreover, QuEST allows stable training with 1-bit weights and activations.
QuEST achieves this by improving two key aspects of QAT methods: (1) accurate
and fast quantization of the (continuous) distributions of weights and
activations via Hadamard normalization and MSE-optimal fitting; (2) a new trust
gradient estimator based on the idea of explicitly minimizing the error between
the noisy gradient computed over quantized states and the "true" (but unknown)
full-precision gradient. Experiments on Llama-type architectures show that
QuEST induces stable scaling laws across the entire range of hardware-supported
precisions, and can be extended to sparse representations. We provide GPU
kernel support showing that models produced by QuEST can be executed
efficiently. Our code is available at https://github.com/IST-DASLab/QuEST.

---

## 6. [AuraFusion360: Augmented Unseen Region Alignment for Reference-based
  360° Unbounded Scene Inpainting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.05176)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.05176](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05176)

**Authors**: Chung-Ho Wu, Yang-Jung Chen, Ying-Huan Chen, Jie-Ying Lee, Bo-Hsu Ke, Chun-Wei Tuan Mu, Yi-Chuan Huang, Chin-Yang Lin, Min-Hung Chen, Yen-Yu Lin, Yu-Lun Liu

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Yu-Lun Liu

**Upvotes**: 40

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kkennethwu/AuraFusion360_official) | [Project Page](https://kkennethwu.github.io/aurafusion360/)

### Abstract

Three-dimensional scene inpainting is crucial for applications from virtual
reality to architectural visualization, yet existing methods struggle with view
consistency and geometric accuracy in 360{\deg} unbounded scenes. We present
AuraFusion360, a novel reference-based method that enables high-quality object
removal and hole filling in 3D scenes represented by Gaussian Splatting. Our
approach introduces (1) depth-aware unseen mask generation for accurate
occlusion identification, (2) Adaptive Guided Depth Diffusion, a zero-shot
method for accurate initial point placement without requiring additional
training, and (3) SDEdit-based detail enhancement for multi-view coherence. We
also introduce 360-USID, the first comprehensive dataset for 360{\deg}
unbounded scene inpainting with ground truth. Extensive experiments demonstrate
that AuraFusion360 significantly outperforms existing methods, achieving
superior perceptual quality while maintaining geometric accuracy across
dramatic viewpoint changes. See our project page for video results and the
dataset at https://kkennethwu.github.io/aurafusion360/.

---

## 7. [Step Back to Leap Forward: Self-Backtracking for Boosting Reasoning of
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04404)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04404](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04404)

**Authors**: Xiao-Wen Yang, Xuan-Yi Zhu, Wen-Da Wei, Ding-Chu Zhang, Jie-Jing Shao, Lan-Zhe Guo, Yu-Feng Li

**Published**: 2025-02-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/LAMDASZ-ML/Self-Backtracking)

### Abstract

The integration of slow-thinking mechanisms into large language models (LLMs)
offers a promising way toward achieving Level 2 AGI Reasoners, as exemplified
by systems like OpenAI's o1. However, several significant challenges remain,
including inefficient overthinking and an overreliance on auxiliary reward
models. We point out that these limitations stem from LLMs' inability to
internalize the search process, a key component of effective reasoning. A
critical step toward addressing this issue is enabling LLMs to autonomously
determine when and where to backtrack, a fundamental operation in traditional
search algorithms. To this end, we propose a self-backtracking mechanism that
equips LLMs with the ability to backtrack during both training and inference.
This mechanism not only enhances reasoning ability but also efficiency by
transforming slow-thinking processes into fast-thinking through
self-improvement. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that our proposal
significantly enhances the reasoning capabilities of LLMs, achieving a
performance gain of over 40 percent compared to the optimal-path supervised
fine-tuning method. We believe this study introduces a novel and promising
pathway for developing more advanced and robust Reasoners.

---

## 8. [FlashVideo:Flowing Fidelity to Detail for Efficient High-Resolution
  Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.05179)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.05179](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05179)

**Authors**: Shilong Zhang, Wenbo Li, Shoufa Chen, Chongjian Ge, Peize Sun, Yida Zhang, Yi Jiang, Zehuan Yuan, Binyue Peng, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/FoundationVision/FlashVideo) | [Project Page](https://jshilong.github.io/flashvideo-page/)

### Abstract

DiT diffusion models have achieved great success in text-to-video generation,
leveraging their scalability in model capacity and data scale. High content and
motion fidelity aligned with text prompts, however, often require large model
parameters and a substantial number of function evaluations (NFEs). Realistic
and visually appealing details are typically reflected in high resolution
outputs, further amplifying computational demands especially for single stage
DiT models. To address these challenges, we propose a novel two stage
framework, FlashVideo, which strategically allocates model capacity and NFEs
across stages to balance generation fidelity and quality. In the first stage,
prompt fidelity is prioritized through a low resolution generation process
utilizing large parameters and sufficient NFEs to enhance computational
efficiency. The second stage establishes flow matching between low and high
resolutions, effectively generating fine details with minimal NFEs.
Quantitative and visual results demonstrate that FlashVideo achieves
state-of-the-art high resolution video generation with superior computational
efficiency. Additionally, the two-stage design enables users to preview the
initial output before committing to full resolution generation, thereby
significantly reducing computational costs and wait times as well as enhancing
commercial viability .

---

## 9. [Agency Is Frame-Dependent](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04403)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04403](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04403)

**Authors**: David Abel, André Barreto, Michael Bowling, Will Dabney, Shi Dong, Steven Hansen, Anna Harutyunyan, Khimya Khetarpal, Clare Lyle, Razvan Pascanu, Georgios Piliouras, Doina Precup, Jonathan Richens, Mark Rowland, Tom Schaul, Satinder Singh

**Published**: 2025-02-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Agency is a system's capacity to steer outcomes toward a goal, and is a
central topic of study across biology, philosophy, cognitive science, and
artificial intelligence. Determining if a system exhibits agency is a
notoriously difficult question: Dennett (1989), for instance, highlights the
puzzle of determining which principles can decide whether a rock, a thermostat,
or a robot each possess agency. We here address this puzzle from the viewpoint
of reinforcement learning by arguing that agency is fundamentally
frame-dependent: Any measurement of a system's agency must be made relative to
a reference frame. We support this claim by presenting a philosophical argument
that each of the essential properties of agency proposed by Barandiaran et al.
(2009) and Moreno (2018) are themselves frame-dependent. We conclude that any
basic science of agency requires frame-dependence, and discuss the implications
of this claim for reinforcement learning.

---

## 10. [DuoGuard: A Two-Player RL-Driven Framework for Multilingual LLM
  Guardrails](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.05163)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.05163](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05163)

**Authors**: Yihe Deng, Yu Yang, Junkai Zhang, Wei Wang, Bo Li

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Yihe Deng

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yihedeng9/duoguard)

### Abstract

The rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs) has increased the need
for guardrail models to ensure responsible use, particularly in detecting
unsafe and illegal content. While substantial safety data exist in English,
multilingual guardrail modeling remains underexplored due to the scarcity of
open-source safety data in other languages. To address this gap, we propose a
novel two-player Reinforcement Learning (RL) framework, where a generator and a
guardrail model co-evolve adversarially to produce high-quality synthetic data
for multilingual guardrail training. We theoretically formalize this
interaction as a two-player game, proving convergence to a Nash equilibrium.
Empirical evaluations show that our model \ours outperforms state-of-the-art
models, achieving nearly 10% improvement over LlamaGuard3 (8B) on English
benchmarks while being 4.5x faster at inference with a significantly smaller
model (0.5B). We achieve substantial advancements in multilingual safety tasks,
particularly in addressing the imbalance for lower-resource languages in a
collected real dataset. Ablation studies emphasize the critical role of
synthetic data generation in bridging the imbalance in open-source data between
English and other languages. These findings establish a scalable and efficient
approach to synthetic data generation, paving the way for improved multilingual
guardrail models to enhance LLM safety. Code, model, and data will be
open-sourced at https://github.com/yihedeng9/DuoGuard.

---

## 11. [Generating Symbolic World Models via Test-time Scaling of Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04728)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04728](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04728)

**Authors**: Zhouliang Yu, Yuhuan Yuan, Tim Z. Xiao, Fuxiang Frank Xia, Jie Fu, Ge Zhang, Ge Lin, Weiyang Liu

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/VMLPDDL/VML_PDDL) | [Project Page](https://vmlpddl.github.io)

### Abstract

Solving complex planning problems requires Large Language Models (LLMs) to
explicitly model the state transition to avoid rule violations, comply with
constraints, and ensure optimality-a task hindered by the inherent ambiguity of
natural language. To overcome such ambiguity, Planning Domain Definition
Language (PDDL) is leveraged as a planning abstraction that enables precise and
formal state descriptions. With PDDL, we can generate a symbolic world model
where classic searching algorithms, such as A*, can be seamlessly applied to
find optimal plans. However, directly generating PDDL domains with current LLMs
remains an open challenge due to the lack of PDDL training data. To address
this challenge, we propose to scale up the test-time computation of LLMs to
enhance their PDDL reasoning capabilities, thereby enabling the generation of
high-quality PDDL domains. Specifically, we introduce a simple yet effective
algorithm, which first employs a Best-of-N sampling approach to improve the
quality of the initial solution and then refines the solution in a fine-grained
manner with verbalized machine learning. Our method outperforms o1-mini by a
considerable margin in the generation of PDDL domain, achieving over 50%
success rate on two tasks (i.e., generating PDDL domains from natural language
description or PDDL problems). This is done without requiring additional
training. By taking advantage of PDDL as state abstraction, our method is able
to outperform current state-of-the-art methods on almost all competition-level
planning tasks.

---

## 12. [CMoE: Fast Carving of Mixture-of-Experts for Efficient LLM Inference](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04416)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04416](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04416)

**Authors**: Zehua Pei, Lancheng Zou, Hui-Ling Zhen, Xianzhi Yu, Wulong Liu, Sinno Jialin Pan, Mingxuan Yuan, Bei Yu

**Published**: 2025-02-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by JarvisPei

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/JarvisPei/CMoE)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) achieve impressive performance by scaling model
parameters, but this comes with significant inference overhead. Feed-forward
networks (FFNs), which dominate LLM parameters, exhibit high activation
sparsity in hidden neurons. To exploit this, researchers have proposed using a
mixture-of-experts (MoE) architecture, where only a subset of parameters is
activated. However, existing approaches often require extensive training data
and resources, limiting their practicality. We propose CMoE (Carved MoE), a
novel framework to efficiently carve MoE models from dense models. CMoE
achieves remarkable performance through efficient expert grouping and
lightweight adaptation. First, neurons are grouped into shared and routed
experts based on activation rates. Next, we construct a routing mechanism
without training from scratch, incorporating a differentiable routing process
and load balancing. Using modest data, CMoE produces a well-designed, usable
MoE from a 7B dense model within five minutes. With lightweight fine-tuning, it
achieves high-performance recovery in under an hour. We make our code publicly
available at https://github.com/JarvisPei/CMoE.

---

## 13. [On-device Sora: Enabling Diffusion-Based Text-to-Video Generation for
  Mobile Devices](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04363)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04363](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04363)

**Authors**: Bosung Kim, Kyuhwan Lee, Isu Jeong, Jungmin Cheon, Yeojin Lee, Seulki Lee

**Published**: 2025-02-05 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/eai-lab/On-device-Sora)

### Abstract

We present On-device Sora, a first pioneering solution for diffusion-based
on-device text-to-video generation that operates efficiently on
smartphone-grade devices. Building on Open-Sora, On-device Sora applies three
novel techniques to address the challenges of diffusion-based text-to-video
generation on computation- and memory-limited mobile devices. First, Linear
Proportional Leap (LPL) reduces the excessive denoising steps required in video
diffusion through an efficient leap-based approach. Second, Temporal Dimension
Token Merging (TDTM) minimizes intensive token-processing computation in
attention layers by merging consecutive tokens along the temporal dimension.
Third, Concurrent Inference with Dynamic Loading (CI-DL) dynamically partitions
large models into smaller blocks and loads them into memory for concurrent
model inference, effectively addressing the challenges of limited device
memory. We implement On-device Sora on the iPhone 15 Pro, and the experimental
evaluations demonstrate that it is capable of generating high-quality videos on
the device, comparable to those produced by Open-Sora running on high-end GPUs.
These results show that On-device Sora enables efficient and high-quality video
generation on resource-constrained mobile devices, expanding accessibility,
ensuring user privacy, reducing dependence on cloud infrastructure, and
lowering associated costs. We envision the proposed On-device Sora as a
significant first step toward democratizing state-of-the-art generative
technologies, enabling video generation capabilities on commodity mobile and
embedded devices. The code implementation is publicly available at an GitHub
repository: https://github.com/eai-lab/On-device-Sora.

---

## 14. [No Task Left Behind: Isotropic Model Merging with Common and
  Task-Specific Subspaces](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04959)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04959](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04959)

**Authors**: Daniel Marczak, Simone Magistri, Sebastian Cygert, Bartłomiej Twardowski, Andrew D. Bagdanov, Joost van de Weijer

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Daniel Marczak

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/danielm1405/iso-merging)

### Abstract

Model merging integrates the weights of multiple task-specific models into a
single multi-task model. Despite recent interest in the problem, a significant
performance gap between the combined and single-task models remains. In this
paper, we investigate the key characteristics of task matrices -- weight update
matrices applied to a pre-trained model -- that enable effective merging. We
show that alignment between singular components of task-specific and merged
matrices strongly correlates with performance improvement over the pre-trained
model. Based on this, we propose an isotropic merging framework that flattens
the singular value spectrum of task matrices, enhances alignment, and reduces
the performance gap. Additionally, we incorporate both common and task-specific
subspaces to further improve alignment and performance. Our proposed approach
achieves state-of-the-art performance across multiple scenarios, including
various sets of tasks and model scales. This work advances the understanding of
model merging dynamics, offering an effective methodology to merge models
without requiring additional training. Code is available at
https://github.com/danielm1405/iso-merging .

---

## 15. [Scaling Laws in Patchification: An Image Is Worth 50,176 Tokens And More](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.03738)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.03738](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03738)

**Authors**: Feng Wang, Yaodong Yu, Guoyizhe Wei, Wei Shao, Yuyin Zhou, Alan Yuille, Cihang Xie

**Published**: 2025-02-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Niels Rogge

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wangf3014/Patch_Scaling)

### Abstract

Since the introduction of Vision Transformer (ViT), patchification has long
been regarded as a de facto image tokenization approach for plain visual
architectures. By compressing the spatial size of images, this approach can
effectively shorten the token sequence and reduce the computational cost of
ViT-like plain architectures. In this work, we aim to thoroughly examine the
information loss caused by this patchification-based compressive encoding
paradigm and how it affects visual understanding. We conduct extensive patch
size scaling experiments and excitedly observe an intriguing scaling law in
patchification: the models can consistently benefit from decreased patch sizes
and attain improved predictive performance, until it reaches the minimum patch
size of 1x1, i.e., pixel tokenization. This conclusion is broadly applicable
across different vision tasks, various input scales, and diverse architectures
such as ViT and the recent Mamba models. Moreover, as a by-product, we discover
that with smaller patches, task-specific decoder heads become less critical for
dense prediction. In the experiments, we successfully scale up the visual
sequence to an exceptional length of 50,176 tokens, achieving a competitive
test accuracy of 84.6% with a base-sized model on the ImageNet-1k benchmark. We
hope this study can provide insights and theoretical foundations for future
works of building non-compressive vision models. Code is available at
https://github.com/wangf3014/Patch_Scaling.

---

## 16. [CodeSteer: Symbolic-Augmented Language Models via Code/Text Guidance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04350)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04350](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04350)

**Authors**: Yongchao Chen, Yilun Hao, Yueying Liu, Yang Zhang, Chuchu Fan

**Published**: 2025-02-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yongchao98/CodeSteer-v1.0)

### Abstract

Existing methods fail to effectively steer Large Language Models (LLMs)
between textual reasoning and code generation, leaving symbolic computing
capabilities underutilized. We introduce CodeSteer, an effective method for
guiding LLM code/text generation. We construct a comprehensive benchmark
SymBench comprising 37 symbolic tasks with adjustable complexity and also
synthesize datasets of 12k multi-round guidance/generation trajectories and
5.5k guidance comparison pairs. We fine-tune the Llama-3-8B model with a newly
designed multi-round supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and direct preference
optimization (DPO). The resulting model, CodeSteerLLM, augmented with the
proposed symbolic and self-answer checkers, effectively guides the code/text
generation of larger models. Augmenting GPT-4o with CodeSteer raises its
average performance score from 53.3 to 86.4, even outperforming the existing
best LLM OpenAI o1 (82.7), o1-preview (74.8), and DeepSeek R1 (76.8) across all
37 tasks (28 seen, 9 unseen). Trained for GPT-4o, CodeSteer demonstrates
superior generalizability, providing an average 41.8 performance boost on
Claude, Mistral, and GPT-3.5. CodeSteer-guided LLMs fully harness symbolic
computing to maintain strong performance on highly complex tasks. Models,
Datasets, and Codes are available at
https://github.com/yongchao98/CodeSteer-v1.0.

---

## 17. [QLIP: Text-Aligned Visual Tokenization Unifies Auto-Regressive
  Multimodal Understanding and Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.05178)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.05178](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05178)

**Authors**: Yue Zhao, Fuzhao Xue, Scott Reed, Linxi Fan, Yuke Zhu, Jan Kautz, Zhiding Yu, Philipp Krähenbühl, De-An Huang

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Yue Zhao

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NVlabs/QLIP) | [Project Page](https://nvlabs.github.io/QLIP/)

### Abstract

We introduce Quantized Language-Image Pretraining (QLIP), a visual
tokenization method that combines state-of-the-art reconstruction quality with
state-of-the-art zero-shot image understanding. QLIP trains a
binary-spherical-quantization-based autoencoder with reconstruction and
language-image alignment objectives. We are the first to show that the two
objectives do not need to be at odds. We balance the two loss terms dynamically
during training and show that a two-stage training pipeline effectively mixes
the large-batch requirements of image-language pre-training with the memory
bottleneck imposed by the reconstruction objective. We validate the
effectiveness of QLIP for multimodal understanding and text-conditioned image
generation with a single model. Specifically, QLIP serves as a drop-in
replacement for the visual encoder for LLaVA and the image tokenizer for
LlamaGen with comparable or even better performance. Finally, we demonstrate
that QLIP enables a unified mixed-modality auto-regressive model for
understanding and generation.

---

## 18. [Linear Correlation in LM's Compositional Generalization and
  Hallucination](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04520)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04520](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04520)

**Authors**: Letian Peng, Chenyang An, Shibo Hao, Chengyu Dong, Jingbo Shang

**Published**: 2025-02-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/KomeijiForce/LinCorr)

### Abstract

The generalization of language models (LMs) is undergoing active debates,
contrasting their potential for general intelligence with their struggles with
basic knowledge composition (e.g., reverse/transition curse). This paper
uncovers the phenomenon of linear correlations in LMs during knowledge
composition. For explanation, there exists a linear transformation between
certain related knowledge that maps the next token prediction logits from one
prompt to another, e.g., "X lives in the city of" rightarrow "X lives in the
country of" for every given X. This mirrors the linearity in human knowledge
composition, such as Paris rightarrow France. Our findings indicate that the
linear transformation is resilient to large-scale fine-tuning, generalizing
updated knowledge when aligned with real-world relationships, but causing
hallucinations when it deviates. Empirical results suggest that linear
correlation can serve as a potential identifier of LM's generalization.
Finally, we show such linear correlations can be learned with a single
feedforward network and pre-trained vocabulary representations, indicating LM
generalization heavily relies on the latter.

---

## 19. [Lost in Time: Clock and Calendar Understanding Challenges in Multimodal
  LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.05092)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.05092](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05092)

**Authors**: Rohit Saxena, Aryo Pradipta Gema, Pasquale Minervini

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Rohit Saxena

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Understanding time from visual representations is a fundamental cognitive
skill, yet it remains a challenge for multimodal large language models (MLLMs).
In this work, we investigate the capabilities of MLLMs in interpreting time and
date through analogue clocks and yearly calendars. To facilitate this, we
curated a structured dataset comprising two subsets: 1) ClockQA,
which comprises various types of clock styles-standard, black-dial,
no-second-hand, Roman numeral, and arrow-hand clocks-paired with time related
questions; and 2) CalendarQA, which consists of yearly calendar
images with questions ranging from commonly known dates (e.g., Christmas, New
Year's Day) to computationally derived ones (e.g., the 100th or 153rd day of
the year). We aim to analyse how MLLMs can perform visual recognition,
numerical reasoning, and temporal inference when presented with time-related
visual data. Our evaluations show that despite recent advancements, reliably
understanding time remains a significant challenge for MLLMs.

---

## 20. [ARR: Question Answering with Large Language Models via Analyzing,
  Retrieving, and Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04689)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04689](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04689)

**Organization**: University of British Columbia

**Authors**: Yuwei Yin, Giuseppe Carenini

**Published**: 2025-02-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Yuwei Yin

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/YuweiYin/ARR) | [Project Page](https://www.yuweiyin.com/publication/2025-02-07-arr/)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) achieve remarkable performance on challenging
benchmarks that are often structured as multiple-choice question-answering (QA)
tasks. Zero-shot Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting enhances reasoning in LLMs
but provides only vague and generic guidance ("think step by step"). This paper
introduces ARR, an intuitive and effective zero-shot prompting method that
explicitly incorporates three key steps in QA solving: analyzing the intent of
the question, retrieving relevant information, and reasoning step by step.
Comprehensive experiments across diverse and challenging QA tasks demonstrate
that ARR consistently improves the Baseline (without ARR prompting) and
outperforms CoT. Ablation and case studies further validate the positive
contributions of each component: analyzing, retrieving, and reasoning. Notably,
intent analysis plays a vital role in ARR. Additionally, extensive evaluations
across various model sizes, LLM series, and generation settings solidify the
effectiveness, robustness, and generalizability of ARR.

---

## 21. [Value-Based Deep RL Scales Predictably](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04327)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04327](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04327)

**Authors**: Oleh Rybkin, Michal Nauman, Preston Fu, Charlie Snell, Pieter Abbeel, Sergey Levine, Aviral Kumar

**Published**: 2025-02-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Oleh Rybkin

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Scaling data and compute is critical to the success of machine learning.
However, scaling demands predictability: we want methods to not only perform
well with more compute or data, but also have their performance be predictable
from small-scale runs, without running the large-scale experiment. In this
paper, we show that value-based off-policy RL methods are predictable despite
community lore regarding their pathological behavior. First, we show that data
and compute requirements to attain a given performance level lie on a Pareto
frontier, controlled by the updates-to-data (UTD) ratio. By estimating this
frontier, we can predict this data requirement when given more compute, and
this compute requirement when given more data. Second, we determine the optimal
allocation of a total resource budget across data and compute for a given
performance and use it to determine hyperparameters that maximize performance
for a given budget. Third, this scaling behavior is enabled by first estimating
predictable relationships between hyperparameters, which is used to manage
effects of overfitting and plasticity loss unique to RL. We validate our
approach using three algorithms: SAC, BRO, and PQL on DeepMind Control, OpenAI
gym, and IsaacGym, when extrapolating to higher levels of data, compute,
budget, or performance.

---

## 22. [YINYANG-ALIGN: Benchmarking Contradictory Objectives and Proposing
  Multi-Objective Optimization based DPO for Text-to-Image Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.03512)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.03512](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03512)

**Authors**: Amitava Das, Yaswanth Narsupalli, Gurpreet Singh, Vinija Jain, Vasu Sharma, Suranjana Trivedy, Aman Chadha, Amit Sheth

**Published**: 2025-02-05 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Aman Chadha

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Precise alignment in Text-to-Image (T2I) systems is crucial to ensure that
generated visuals not only accurately encapsulate user intents but also conform
to stringent ethical and aesthetic benchmarks. Incidents like the Google Gemini
fiasco, where misaligned outputs triggered significant public backlash,
underscore the critical need for robust alignment mechanisms. In contrast,
Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved notable success in alignment.
Building on these advancements, researchers are eager to apply similar
alignment techniques, such as Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), to T2I
systems to enhance image generation fidelity and reliability.
  We present YinYangAlign, an advanced benchmarking framework that
systematically quantifies the alignment fidelity of T2I systems, addressing six
fundamental and inherently contradictory design objectives. Each pair
represents fundamental tensions in image generation, such as balancing
adherence to user prompts with creative modifications or maintaining diversity
alongside visual coherence. YinYangAlign includes detailed axiom datasets
featuring human prompts, aligned (chosen) responses, misaligned (rejected)
AI-generated outputs, and explanations of the underlying contradictions.

---

## 23. [Continuous 3D Perception Model with Persistent State](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.12387)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.12387](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12387)

**Authors**: Qianqian Wang, Yifei Zhang, Aleksander Holynski, Alexei A. Efros, Angjoo Kanazawa

**Published**: 2025-01-21 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Niels Rogge

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/CUT3R/CUT3R) | [Project Page](https://cut3r.github.io/)

### Abstract

We present a unified framework capable of solving a broad range of 3D tasks.
Our approach features a stateful recurrent model that continuously updates its
state representation with each new observation. Given a stream of images, this
evolving state can be used to generate metric-scale pointmaps (per-pixel 3D
points) for each new input in an online fashion. These pointmaps reside within
a common coordinate system, and can be accumulated into a coherent, dense scene
reconstruction that updates as new images arrive. Our model, called CUT3R
(Continuous Updating Transformer for 3D Reconstruction), captures rich priors
of real-world scenes: not only can it predict accurate pointmaps from image
observations, but it can also infer unseen regions of the scene by probing at
virtual, unobserved views. Our method is simple yet highly flexible, naturally
accepting varying lengths of images that may be either video streams or
unordered photo collections, containing both static and dynamic content. We
evaluate our method on various 3D/4D tasks and demonstrate competitive or
state-of-the-art performance in each. Project Page: https://cut3r.github.io/

---

## 24. [Adaptive Semantic Prompt Caching with VectorQ](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.03771)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.03771](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03771)

**Authors**: Luis Gaspar Schroeder, Shu Liu, Alejandro Cuadron, Mark Zhao, Stephan Krusche, Alfons Kemper, Matei Zaharia, Joseph E. Gonzalez

**Published**: 2025-02-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Alejandro Cuadron

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Semantic prompt caches reduce the latency and cost of large language model
(LLM) inference by reusing cached LLM-generated responses for semantically
similar prompts. Vector similarity metrics assign a numerical score to quantify
the similarity between an embedded prompt and its nearest neighbor in the
cache. Existing systems rely on a static threshold to classify whether the
similarity score is sufficiently high to result in a cache hit. We show that
this one-size-fits-all threshold is insufficient across different prompts. We
propose VectorQ, a framework to learn embedding-specific threshold regions that
adapt to the complexity and uncertainty of an embedding. Through evaluations on
a combination of four diverse datasets, we show that VectorQ consistently
outperforms state-of-the-art systems across all static thresholds, achieving up
to 12x increases in cache hit rate and error rate reductions up to 92%.

---

## 25. [MEETING DELEGATE: Benchmarking LLMs on Attending Meetings on Our Behalf](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.04376)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.04376](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04376)

**Authors**: Lingxiang Hu, Shurun Yuan, Xiaoting Qin, Jue Zhang, Qingwei Lin, Dongmei Zhang, Saravan Rajmohan, Qi Zhang

**Published**: 2025-02-05 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Xiaoting Qin

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

In contemporary workplaces, meetings are essential for exchanging ideas and
ensuring team alignment but often face challenges such as time consumption,
scheduling conflicts, and inefficient participation. Recent advancements in
Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated their strong capabilities in
natural language generation and reasoning, prompting the question: can LLMs
effectively delegate participants in meetings? To explore this, we develop a
prototype LLM-powered meeting delegate system and create a comprehensive
benchmark using real meeting transcripts. Our evaluation reveals that GPT-4/4o
maintain balanced performance between active and cautious engagement
strategies. In contrast, Gemini 1.5 Pro tends to be more cautious, while Gemini
1.5 Flash and Llama3-8B/70B display more active tendencies. Overall, about 60\%
of responses address at least one key point from the ground-truth. However,
improvements are needed to reduce irrelevant or repetitive content and enhance
tolerance for transcription errors commonly found in real-world settings.
Additionally, we implement the system in practical settings and collect
real-world feedback from demos. Our findings underscore the potential and
challenges of utilizing LLMs as meeting delegates, offering valuable insights
into their practical application for alleviating the burden of meetings.

---

## 26. [SPARC: Subspace-Aware Prompt Adaptation for Robust Continual Learning in
  LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.02909)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.02909](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02909)

**Authors**: Dinithi Jayasuriya, Sina Tayebati, Davide Ettori, Ranganath Krishnan, Amit Ranjan Trivedi

**Published**: 2025-02-05 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Sina Tayebati

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

We propose SPARC, a lightweight continual learning framework for large
language models (LLMs) that enables efficient task adaptation through prompt
tuning in a lower-dimensional space. By leveraging principal component analysis
(PCA), we identify a compact subspace of the training data. Optimizing prompts
in this lower-dimensional space enhances training efficiency, as it focuses
updates on the most relevant features while reducing computational overhead.
Furthermore, since the model's internal structure remains unaltered, the
extensive knowledge gained from pretraining is fully preserved, ensuring that
previously learned information is not compromised during adaptation. Our method
achieves high knowledge retention in both task-incremental and
domain-incremental continual learning setups while fine-tuning only 0.04% of
the model's parameters. Additionally, by integrating LoRA, we enhance
adaptability to computational constraints, allowing for a tradeoff between
accuracy and training cost. Experiments on the SuperGLUE benchmark demonstrate
that our PCA-based prompt tuning combined with LoRA maintains full knowledge
retention while improving accuracy, utilizing only 1% of the model's
parameters. These results establish our approach as a scalable and
resource-efficient solution for continual learning in LLMs.

---

## 27. [Intelligent Sensing-to-Action for Robust Autonomy at the Edge:
  Opportunities and Challenges](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.02692)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.02692](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02692)

**Authors**: Amit Ranjan Trivedi, Sina Tayebati, Hemant Kumawat, Nastaran Darabi, Divake Kumar, Adarsh Kumar Kosta, Yeshwanth Venkatesha, Dinithi Jayasuriya, Nethmi Jayasinghe, Priyadarshini Panda, Saibal Mukhopadhyay, Kaushik Roy

**Published**: 2025-02-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-10 by Sina Tayebati

**Upvotes**: 0

### Abstract

Autonomous edge computing in robotics, smart cities, and autonomous vehicles
relies on the seamless integration of sensing, processing, and actuation for
real-time decision-making in dynamic environments. At its core is the
sensing-to-action loop, which iteratively aligns sensor inputs with
computational models to drive adaptive control strategies. These loops can
adapt to hyper-local conditions, enhancing resource efficiency and
responsiveness, but also face challenges such as resource constraints,
synchronization delays in multi-modal data fusion, and the risk of cascading
errors in feedback loops. This article explores how proactive, context-aware
sensing-to-action and action-to-sensing adaptations can enhance efficiency by
dynamically adjusting sensing and computation based on task demands, such as
sensing a very limited part of the environment and predicting the rest. By
guiding sensing through control actions, action-to-sensing pathways can improve
task relevance and resource use, but they also require robust monitoring to
prevent cascading errors and maintain reliability. Multi-agent sensing-action
loops further extend these capabilities through coordinated sensing and actions
across distributed agents, optimizing resource use via collaboration.
Additionally, neuromorphic computing, inspired by biological systems, provides
an efficient framework for spike-based, event-driven processing that conserves
energy, reduces latency, and supports hierarchical control--making it ideal for
multi-agent optimization. This article highlights the importance of end-to-end
co-design strategies that align algorithmic models with hardware and
environmental dynamics and improve cross-layer interdependencies to improve
throughput, precision, and adaptability for energy-efficient edge autonomy in
complex environments.

---
