# Daily Papers - 2025-02-20

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-02-20)

Total papers: 32

---

## 1. [Qwen2.5-VL Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13923)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13923](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13923)

**Authors**: Shuai Bai, Keqin Chen, Xuejing Liu, Jialin Wang, Wenbin Ge, Sibo Song, Kai Dang, Peng Wang, Shijie Wang, Jun Tang, Humen Zhong, Mingkun Yang, Zhaohai Li, Jianqiang Wan, Pengfei Wang, Wei Ding, Zheren Fu, Yiheng Xu, Jiabo Ye, Xi Zhang, Tianbao Xie, Zesen Cheng, Hang Zhang, Zhibo Yang, Haiyang Xu, Junyang Lin

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by shuai bai

**Upvotes**: 215

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen2.5-VL) | [Project Page](https://chat.qwenlm.ai)

### Abstract

We introduce Qwen2.5-VL, the latest flagship model of Qwen vision-language
series, which demonstrates significant advancements in both foundational
capabilities and innovative functionalities. Qwen2.5-VL achieves a major leap
forward in understanding and interacting with the world through enhanced visual
recognition, precise object localization, robust document parsing, and
long-video comprehension. A standout feature of Qwen2.5-VL is its ability to
localize objects using bounding boxes or points accurately. It provides robust
structured data extraction from invoices, forms, and tables, as well as
detailed analysis of charts, diagrams, and layouts. To handle complex inputs,
Qwen2.5-VL introduces dynamic resolution processing and absolute time encoding,
enabling it to process images of varying sizes and videos of extended durations
(up to hours) with second-level event localization. This allows the model to
natively perceive spatial scales and temporal dynamics without relying on
traditional normalization techniques. By training a native dynamic-resolution
Vision Transformer (ViT) from scratch and incorporating Window Attention, we
reduce computational overhead while maintaining native resolution. As a result,
Qwen2.5-VL excels not only in static image and document understanding but also
as an interactive visual agent capable of reasoning, tool usage, and task
execution in real-world scenarios such as operating computers and mobile
devices. Qwen2.5-VL is available in three sizes, addressing diverse use cases
from edge AI to high-performance computing. The flagship Qwen2.5-VL-72B model
matches state-of-the-art models like GPT-4o and Claude 3.5 Sonnet, particularly
excelling in document and diagram understanding. Additionally, Qwen2.5-VL
maintains robust linguistic performance, preserving the core language
competencies of the Qwen2.5 LLM.

---

## 2. [On the Trustworthiness of Generative Foundation Models: Guideline,
  Assessment, and Perspective](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14296)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14296](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14296)

**Authors**: Yue Huang, Chujie Gao, Siyuan Wu, Haoran Wang, Xiangqi Wang, Yujun Zhou, Yanbo Wang, Jiayi Ye, Jiawen Shi, Qihui Zhang, Yuan Li, Han Bao, Zhaoyi Liu, Tianrui Guan, Dongping Chen, Ruoxi Chen, Kehan Guo, Andy Zou, Bryan Hooi Kuen-Yew, Caiming Xiong, Elias Stengel-Eskin, Hongyang Zhang, Hongzhi Yin, Huan Zhang, Huaxiu Yao, Jaehong Yoon, Jieyu Zhang, Kai Shu, Kaijie Zhu, Ranjay Krishna, Swabha Swayamdipta, Taiwei Shi, Weijia Shi, Xiang Li, Yiwei Li, Yuexing Hao, Yuexing Hao, Zhihao Jia, Zhize Li, Xiuying Chen, Zhengzhong Tu, Xiyang Hu, Tianyi Zhou, Jieyu Zhao, Lichao Sun, Furong Huang, Or Cohen Sasson, Prasanna Sattigeri, Anka Reuel, Max Lamparth, Yue Zhao, Nouha Dziri, Yu Su, Huan Sun, Heng Ji, Chaowei Xiao, Mohit Bansal, Nitesh V. Chawla, Jian Pei, Jianfeng Gao, Michael Backes, Philip S. Yu, Neil Zhenqiang Gong, Pin-Yu Chen, Bo Li, Xiangliang Zhang

**Published**: 2025-02-20 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Yue Huang

**Upvotes**: 45

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/TrustGen/TrustEval-toolkit)

### Abstract

Generative Foundation Models (GenFMs) have emerged as transformative tools.
However, their widespread adoption raises critical concerns regarding
trustworthiness across dimensions. This paper presents a comprehensive
framework to address these challenges through three key contributions. First,
we systematically review global AI governance laws and policies from
governments and regulatory bodies, as well as industry practices and standards.
Based on this analysis, we propose a set of guiding principles for GenFMs,
developed through extensive multidisciplinary collaboration that integrates
technical, ethical, legal, and societal perspectives. Second, we introduce
TrustGen, the first dynamic benchmarking platform designed to evaluate
trustworthiness across multiple dimensions and model types, including
text-to-image, large language, and vision-language models. TrustGen leverages
modular components--metadata curation, test case generation, and contextual
variation--to enable adaptive and iterative assessments, overcoming the
limitations of static evaluation methods. Using TrustGen, we reveal significant
progress in trustworthiness while identifying persistent challenges. Finally,
we provide an in-depth discussion of the challenges and future directions for
trustworthy GenFMs, which reveals the complex, evolving nature of
trustworthiness, highlighting the nuanced trade-offs between utility and
trustworthiness, and consideration for various downstream applications,
identifying persistent challenges and providing a strategic roadmap for future
research. This work establishes a holistic framework for advancing
trustworthiness in GenAI, paving the way for safer and more responsible
integration of GenFMs into critical applications. To facilitate advancement in
the community, we release the toolkit for dynamic evaluation.

---

## 3. [MMTEB: Massive Multilingual Text Embedding Benchmark](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13595)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13595](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13595)

**Organization**: Massive Text Embedding Benchmark

**Authors**: Kenneth Enevoldsen, Isaac Chung, Imene Kerboua, Márton Kardos, Ashwin Mathur, David Stap, Jay Gala, Wissam Siblini, Dominik Krzemiński, Genta Indra Winata, Saba Sturua, Saiteja Utpala, Mathieu Ciancone, Marion Schaeffer, Gabriel Sequeira, Diganta Misra, Shreeya Dhakal, Jonathan Rystrøm, Roman Solomatin, Ömer Çağatan, Akash Kundu, Martin Bernstorff, Shitao Xiao, Akshita Sukhlecha, Bhavish Pahwa, Rafał Poświata, Kranthi Kiran GV, Shawon Ashraf, Daniel Auras, Björn Plüster, Jan Philipp Harries, Loïc Magne, Isabelle Mohr, Mariya Hendriksen, Dawei Zhu, Hippolyte Gisserot-Boukhlef, Tom Aarsen, Jan Kostkan, Konrad Wojtasik, Taemin Lee, Marek Šuppa, Crystina Zhang, Roberta Rocca, Mohammed Hamdy, Andrianos Michail, John Yang, Manuel Faysse, Aleksei Vatolin, Nandan Thakur, Manan Dey, Dipam Vasani, Pranjal Chitale, Simone Tedeschi, Nguyen Tai, Artem Snegirev, Michael Günther, Mengzhou Xia, Weijia Shi, Xing Han Lù, Jordan Clive, Gayatri Krishnakumar, Anna Maksimova, Silvan Wehrli, Maria Tikhonova, Henil Panchal, Aleksandr Abramov, Malte Ostendorff, Zheng Liu, Simon Clematide, Lester James Miranda, Alena Fenogenova, Guangyu Song, Ruqiya Bin Safi, Wen-Ding Li, Alessia Borghini, Federico Cassano, Hongjin Su, Jimmy Lin, Howard Yen, Lasse Hansen, Sara Hooker, Chenghao Xiao, Vaibhav Adlakha, Orion Weller, Siva Reddy, Niklas Muennighoff

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Niklas Muennighoff

**Upvotes**: 45

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/embeddings-benchmark/mteb) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/spaces/mteb/leaderboard)

### Abstract

Text embeddings are typically evaluated on a limited set of tasks, which are
constrained by language, domain, and task diversity. To address these
limitations and provide a more comprehensive evaluation, we introduce the
Massive Multilingual Text Embedding Benchmark (MMTEB) - a large-scale,
community-driven expansion of MTEB, covering over 500 quality-controlled
evaluation tasks across 250+ languages. MMTEB includes a diverse set of
challenging, novel tasks such as instruction following, long-document
retrieval, and code retrieval, representing the largest multilingual collection
of evaluation tasks for embedding models to date. Using this collection, we
develop several highly multilingual benchmarks, which we use to evaluate a
representative set of models. We find that while large language models (LLMs)
with billions of parameters can achieve state-of-the-art performance on certain
language subsets and task categories, the best-performing publicly available
model is multilingual-e5-large-instruct with only 560 million parameters. To
facilitate accessibility and reduce computational cost, we introduce a novel
downsampling method based on inter-task correlation, ensuring a diverse
selection while preserving relative model rankings. Furthermore, we optimize
tasks such as retrieval by sampling hard negatives, creating smaller but
effective splits. These optimizations allow us to introduce benchmarks that
drastically reduce computational demands. For instance, our newly introduced
zero-shot English benchmark maintains a ranking order similar to the full-scale
version but at a fraction of the computational cost.

---

## 4. [SongGen: A Single Stage Auto-regressive Transformer for Text-to-Song
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13128)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13128](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13128)

**Authors**: Zihan Liu, Shuangrui Ding, Zhixiong Zhang, Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Yuhang Zang, Yuhang Cao, Dahua Lin, Jiaqi Wang

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Jiaqi Wang

**Upvotes**: 41

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/liuzh-19/songgen) | [Project Page](https://liuzh-19.github.io/SongGen/)

### Abstract

Text-to-song generation, the task of creating vocals and accompaniment from
textual inputs, poses significant challenges due to domain complexity and data
scarcity. Existing approaches often employ multi-stage generation procedures,
resulting in cumbersome training and inference pipelines. In this paper, we
propose SongGen, a fully open-source, single-stage auto-regressive transformer
designed for controllable song generation. The proposed model facilitates
fine-grained control over diverse musical attributes, including lyrics and
textual descriptions of instrumentation, genre, mood, and timbre, while also
offering an optional three-second reference clip for voice cloning. Within a
unified auto-regressive framework, SongGen supports two output modes: mixed
mode, which generates a mixture of vocals and accompaniment directly, and
dual-track mode, which synthesizes them separately for greater flexibility in
downstream applications. We explore diverse token pattern strategies for each
mode, leading to notable improvements and valuable insights. Furthermore, we
design an automated data preprocessing pipeline with effective quality control.
To foster community engagement and future research, we will release our model
weights, training code, annotated data, and preprocessing pipeline. The
generated samples are showcased on our project page at
https://liuzh-19.github.io/SongGen/ , and the code will be available at
https://github.com/LiuZH-19/SongGen .

---

## 5. [Small Models Struggle to Learn from Strong Reasoners](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.12143)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.12143](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12143)

**Authors**: Yuetai Li, Xiang Yue, Zhangchen Xu, Fengqing Jiang, Luyao Niu, Bill Yuchen Lin, Bhaskar Ramasubramanian, Radha Poovendran

**Published**: 2025-02-17 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Zhangchen Xu

**Upvotes**: 39

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Small-Model-Gap/Small-Model-Learnability-Gap)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) excel in complex reasoning tasks, and distilling
their reasoning capabilities into smaller models has shown promise. However, we
uncover an interesting phenomenon, which we term the Small Model Learnability
Gap: small models (leq3B parameters) do not consistently benefit from long
chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning or distillation from larger models. Instead,
they perform better when fine-tuned on shorter, simpler reasoning chains that
better align with their intrinsic learning capacity. To address this, we
propose Mix Distillation, a simple yet effective strategy that balances
reasoning complexity by combining long and short CoT examples or reasoning from
both larger and smaller models. Our experiments demonstrate that Mix
Distillation significantly improves small model reasoning performance compared
to training on either data alone. These findings highlight the limitations of
direct strong model distillation and underscore the importance of adapting
reasoning complexity for effective reasoning capability transfer.

---

## 6. [RAD: Training an End-to-End Driving Policy via Large-Scale 3DGS-based
  Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13144)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13144](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13144)

**Authors**: Hao Gao, Shaoyu Chen, Bo Jiang, Bencheng Liao, Yiang Shi, Xiaoyang Guo, Yuechuan Pu, Haoran Yin, Xiangyu Li, Xinbang Zhang, Ying Zhang, Wenyu Liu, Qian Zhang, Xinggang Wang

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Hao Gao

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hustvl/RAD) | [Project Page](https://hgao-cv.github.io/RAD)

### Abstract

Existing end-to-end autonomous driving (AD) algorithms typically follow the
Imitation Learning (IL) paradigm, which faces challenges such as causal
confusion and the open-loop gap. In this work, we establish a 3DGS-based
closed-loop Reinforcement Learning (RL) training paradigm. By leveraging 3DGS
techniques, we construct a photorealistic digital replica of the real physical
world, enabling the AD policy to extensively explore the state space and learn
to handle out-of-distribution scenarios through large-scale trial and error. To
enhance safety, we design specialized rewards that guide the policy to
effectively respond to safety-critical events and understand real-world causal
relationships. For better alignment with human driving behavior, IL is
incorporated into RL training as a regularization term. We introduce a
closed-loop evaluation benchmark consisting of diverse, previously unseen 3DGS
environments. Compared to IL-based methods, RAD achieves stronger performance
in most closed-loop metrics, especially 3x lower collision rate. Abundant
closed-loop results are presented at https://hgao-cv.github.io/RAD.

---

## 7. [MoM: Linear Sequence Modeling with Mixture-of-Memories](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13685)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13685](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13685)

**Authors**: Jusen Du, Weigao Sun, Disen Lan, Jiaxi Hu, Yu Cheng

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Weigao Sun

**Upvotes**: 36

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/OpenSparseLLMs/MoM)

### Abstract

Linear sequence modeling methods, such as linear attention, state space
modeling, and linear RNNs, offer significant efficiency improvements by
reducing the complexity of training and inference. However, these methods
typically compress the entire input sequence into a single fixed-size memory
state, which leads to suboptimal performance on recall-intensive downstream
tasks. Drawing inspiration from neuroscience, particularly the brain's ability
to maintain robust long-term memory while mitigating "memory interference", we
introduce a novel architecture called Mixture-of-Memories (MoM). MoM utilizes
multiple independent memory states, with a router network directing input
tokens to specific memory states. This approach greatly enhances the overall
memory capacity while minimizing memory interference. As a result, MoM performs
exceptionally well on recall-intensive tasks, surpassing existing linear
sequence modeling techniques. Despite incorporating multiple memory states, the
computation of each memory state remains linear in complexity, allowing MoM to
retain the linear-complexity advantage during training, while
constant-complexity during inference. Our experimental results show that MoM
significantly outperforms current linear sequence models on downstream language
tasks, particularly recall-intensive tasks, and even achieves performance
comparable to Transformer models. The code is released at
https://github.com/OpenSparseLLMs/MoM and is also released as a part of
https://github.com/OpenSparseLLMs/Linear-MoE.

---

## 8. [Craw4LLM: Efficient Web Crawling for LLM Pretraining](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13347)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13347](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13347)

**Authors**: Shi Yu, Zhiyuan Liu, Chenyan Xiong

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Shi Yu

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/cxcscmu/crawl4llm)

### Abstract

Web crawl is a main source of large language models' (LLMs) pretraining data,
but the majority of crawled web pages are discarded in pretraining due to low
data quality. This paper presents Crawl4LLM, an efficient web crawling method
that explores the web graph based on the preference of LLM pretraining.
Specifically, it leverages the influence of a webpage in LLM pretraining as the
priority score of the web crawler's scheduler, replacing the standard graph
connectivity based priority. Our experiments on a web graph containing 900
million webpages from a commercial search engine's index demonstrate the
efficiency of Crawl4LLM in obtaining high-quality pretraining data. With just
21% URLs crawled, LLMs pretrained on Crawl4LLM data reach the same downstream
performances of previous crawls, significantly reducing the crawling waste and
alleviating the burdens on websites. Our code is publicly available at
https://github.com/cxcscmu/Crawl4LLM.

---

## 9. [Is That Your Final Answer? Test-Time Scaling Improves Selective Question
  Answering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13962)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13962](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13962)

**Authors**: William Jurayj, Jeffrey Cheng, Benjamin Van Durme

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wjurayj/final_answer)

### Abstract

Scaling the test-time compute of large language models has demonstrated
impressive performance on reasoning benchmarks. However, existing evaluations
of test-time scaling make the strong assumption that a reasoning system should
always give an answer to any question provided. This overlooks concerns about
whether a model is confident in its answer, and whether it is appropriate to
always provide a response. To address these concerns, we extract confidence
scores during reasoning for thresholding model responses. We find that
increasing compute budget at inference time not only helps models answer more
questions correctly, but also increases confidence in correct responses. We
then extend the current paradigm of zero-risk responses during evaluation by
considering settings with non-zero levels of response risk, and suggest a
recipe for reporting evaluations under these settings.

---

## 10. [LongPO: Long Context Self-Evolution of Large Language Models through
  Short-to-Long Preference Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13922)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13922](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13922)

**Authors**: Guanzheng Chen, Xin Li, Michael Qizhe Shieh, Lidong Bing

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Chen

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/DAMO-NLP-SG/LongPO)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities
through pretraining and alignment. However, superior short-context LLMs may
underperform in long-context scenarios due to insufficient long-context
alignment. This alignment process remains challenging due to the impracticality
of human annotation for extended contexts and the difficulty in balancing
short- and long-context performance. To address these challenges, we introduce
LongPO, that enables short-context LLMs to self-evolve to excel on long-context
tasks by internally transferring short-context capabilities. LongPO harnesses
LLMs to learn from self-generated short-to-long preference data, comprising
paired responses generated for identical instructions with long-context inputs
and their compressed short-context counterparts, respectively. This preference
reveals capabilities and potentials of LLMs cultivated during short-context
alignment that may be diminished in under-aligned long-context scenarios.
Additionally, LongPO incorporates a short-to-long KL constraint to mitigate
short-context performance decline during long-context alignment. When applied
to Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2 from 128K to 512K context lengths, LongPO fully
retains short-context performance and largely outperforms naive SFT and DPO in
both long- and short-context tasks. Specifically, \ourMethod-trained models can
achieve results on long-context benchmarks comparable to, or even surpassing,
those of superior LLMs (e.g., GPT-4-128K) that involve extensive long-context
annotation and larger parameter scales.

---

## 11. [Autellix: An Efficient Serving Engine for LLM Agents as General Programs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13965)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13965](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13965)

**Authors**: Michael Luo, Xiaoxiang Shi, Colin Cai, Tianjun Zhang, Justin Wong, Yichuan Wang, Chi Wang, Yanping Huang, Zhifeng Chen, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Ion Stoica

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Michael Luo

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Large language model (LLM) applications are evolving beyond simple chatbots
into dynamic, general-purpose agentic programs, which scale LLM calls and
output tokens to help AI agents reason, explore, and solve complex tasks.
However, existing LLM serving systems ignore dependencies between programs and
calls, missing significant opportunities for optimization. Our analysis reveals
that programs submitted to LLM serving engines experience long cumulative wait
times, primarily due to head-of-line blocking at both the individual LLM
request and the program. To address this, we introduce Autellix, an LLM serving
system that treats programs as first-class citizens to minimize their
end-to-end latencies. Autellix intercepts LLM calls submitted by programs,
enriching schedulers with program-level context. We propose two scheduling
algorithms-for single-threaded and distributed programs-that preempt and
prioritize LLM calls based on their programs' previously completed calls. Our
evaluation demonstrates that across diverse LLMs and agentic workloads,
Autellix improves throughput of programs by 4-15x at the same latency compared
to state-of-the-art systems, such as vLLM.

---

## 12. [Thinking Preference Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13173)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13173](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13173)

**Authors**: Wang Yang, Hongye Jin, Jingfeng Yang, Vipin Chaudhary

**Published**: 2025-02-17 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/uservan/ThinkPO)

### Abstract

Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) has been a go-to and effective method for
enhancing long chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning in relatively small LLMs by
fine-tuning them with long CoT responses from larger LLMs. To continually
improve reasoning abilities, we can either collect new high-quality long CoT
reasoning SFT data or repeatedly train on existing SFT datasets. However,
acquiring new long CoT SFT data is costly and limited, while repeated training
often results in a performance plateau or decline. To further boost the
performance with the SFT data, we propose Thinking Preference Optimization
(ThinkPO), a simple yet effective post-SFT method that enhances long CoT
reasoning without requiring new long CoT responses. Instead, ThinkPO utilizes
readily available or easily obtainable short CoT reasoning responses as
rejected answers and long CoT responses as chosen answers for the same
question. It then applies direct preference optimization to encourage the model
to favor longer reasoning outputs. Experiments show that ThinkPO further
improves the reasoning performance of SFT-ed models, e.g. it increases math
reasoning accuracy of SFT-ed models by 8.6% and output length by 25.9%.
Notably, ThinkPO is capable of continually boosting the performance of the
publicly distilled SFT model, e.g., increasing the official
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B's performance on MATH500 from 87.4% to 91.2%.

---

## 13. [SearchRAG: Can Search Engines Be Helpful for LLM-based Medical Question
  Answering?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13233)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13233](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13233)

**Authors**: Yucheng Shi, Tianze Yang, Canyu Chen, Quanzheng Li, Tianming Liu, Xiang Li, Ninghao Liu

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Yucheng SHi

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities in general
domains but often struggle with tasks requiring specialized knowledge.
Conventional Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) techniques typically retrieve
external information from static knowledge bases, which can be outdated or
incomplete, missing fine-grained clinical details essential for accurate
medical question answering. In this work, we propose SearchRAG, a novel
framework that overcomes these limitations by leveraging real-time search
engines. Our method employs synthetic query generation to convert complex
medical questions into search-engine-friendly queries and utilizes
uncertainty-based knowledge selection to filter and incorporate the most
relevant and informative medical knowledge into the LLM's input. Experimental
results demonstrate that our method significantly improves response accuracy in
medical question answering tasks, particularly for complex questions requiring
detailed and up-to-date knowledge.

---

## 14. [Train Small, Infer Large: Memory-Efficient LoRA Training for Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13533)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13533](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13533)

**Authors**: Jun Zhang, Jue Wang, Huan Li, Lidan Shou, Ke Chen, Yang You, Guiming Xie, Xuejian Gong, Kunlong Zhou

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Jun Zhang

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/junzhang-zj/LoRAM)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly advanced natural language
processing with exceptional task generalization capabilities. Low-Rank Adaption
(LoRA) offers a cost-effective fine-tuning solution, freezing the original
model parameters and training only lightweight, low-rank adapter matrices.
However, the memory footprint of LoRA is largely dominated by the original
model parameters. To mitigate this, we propose LoRAM, a memory-efficient LoRA
training scheme founded on the intuition that many neurons in
over-parameterized LLMs have low training utility but are essential for
inference. LoRAM presents a unique twist: it trains on a pruned (small) model
to obtain pruned low-rank matrices, which are then recovered and utilized with
the original (large) model for inference. Additionally, minimal-cost continual
pre-training, performed by the model publishers in advance, aligns the
knowledge discrepancy between pruned and original models. Our extensive
experiments demonstrate the efficacy of LoRAM across various pruning strategies
and downstream tasks. For a model with 70 billion parameters, LoRAM enables
training on a GPU with only 20G HBM, replacing an A100-80G GPU for LoRA
training and 15 GPUs for full fine-tuning. Specifically, QLoRAM implemented by
structured pruning combined with 4-bit quantization, for LLaMA-3.1-70B
(LLaMA-2-70B), reduces the parameter storage cost that dominates the memory
usage in low-rank matrix training by 15.81times (16.95times), while
achieving dominant performance gains over both the original LLaMA-3.1-70B
(LLaMA-2-70B) and LoRA-trained LLaMA-3.1-8B (LLaMA-2-13B).

---

## 15. [Presumed Cultural Identity: How Names Shape LLM Responses](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.11995)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.11995](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11995)

**Authors**: Siddhesh Pawar, Arnav Arora, Lucie-Aimée Kaffee, Isabelle Augenstein

**Published**: 2025-02-17 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Siddhesh

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/copenlu/cultural-name-bias)

### Abstract

Names are deeply tied to human identity. They can serve as markers of
individuality, cultural heritage, and personal history. However, using names as
a core indicator of identity can lead to over-simplification of complex
identities. When interacting with LLMs, user names are an important point of
information for personalisation. Names can enter chatbot conversations through
direct user input (requested by chatbots), as part of task contexts such as CV
reviews, or as built-in memory features that store user information for
personalisation. We study biases associated with names by measuring cultural
presumptions in the responses generated by LLMs when presented with common
suggestion-seeking queries, which might involve making assumptions about the
user. Our analyses demonstrate strong assumptions about cultural identity
associated with names present in LLM generations across multiple cultures. Our
work has implications for designing more nuanced personalisation systems that
avoid reinforcing stereotypes while maintaining meaningful customisation.

---

## 16. [Why Safeguarded Ships Run Aground? Aligned Large Language Models' Safety
  Mechanisms Tend to Be Anchored in The Template Region](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13946)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13946](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13946)

**Authors**: Chak Tou Leong, Qingyu Yin, Jian Wang, Wenjie Li

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Cooper Leong

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

The safety alignment of large language models (LLMs) remains vulnerable, as
their initial behavior can be easily jailbroken by even relatively simple
attacks. Since infilling a fixed template between the input instruction and
initial model output is a common practice for existing LLMs, we hypothesize
that this template is a key factor behind their vulnerabilities: LLMs'
safety-related decision-making overly relies on the aggregated information from
the template region, which largely influences these models' safety behavior. We
refer to this issue as template-anchored safety alignment. In this paper, we
conduct extensive experiments and verify that template-anchored safety
alignment is widespread across various aligned LLMs. Our mechanistic analyses
demonstrate how it leads to models' susceptibility when encountering
inference-time jailbreak attacks. Furthermore, we show that detaching safety
mechanisms from the template region is promising in mitigating vulnerabilities
to jailbreak attacks. We encourage future research to develop more robust
safety alignment techniques that reduce reliance on the template region.

---

## 17. [NExT-Mol: 3D Diffusion Meets 1D Language Modeling for 3D Molecule
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.12638)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.12638](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12638)

**Authors**: Zhiyuan Liu, Yanchen Luo, Han Huang, Enzhi Zhang, Sihang Li, Junfeng Fang, Yaorui Shi, Xiang Wang, Kenji Kawaguchi, Tat-Seng Chua

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Zhiyuan Liu

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/acharkq/next-mol)

### Abstract

3D molecule generation is crucial for drug discovery and material design.
While prior efforts focus on 3D diffusion models for their benefits in modeling
continuous 3D conformers, they overlook the advantages of 1D SELFIES-based
Language Models (LMs), which can generate 100% valid molecules and leverage the
billion-scale 1D molecule datasets. To combine these advantages for 3D molecule
generation, we propose a foundation model -- NExT-Mol: 3D Diffusion Meets 1D
Language Modeling for 3D Molecule Generation. NExT-Mol uses an extensively
pretrained molecule LM for 1D molecule generation, and subsequently predicts
the generated molecule's 3D conformers with a 3D diffusion model. We enhance
NExT-Mol's performance by scaling up the LM's model size, refining the
diffusion neural architecture, and applying 1D to 3D transfer learning.
Notably, our 1D molecule LM significantly outperforms baselines in
distributional similarity while ensuring validity, and our 3D diffusion model
achieves leading performances in conformer prediction. Given these improvements
in 1D and 3D modeling, NExT-Mol achieves a 26% relative improvement in 3D FCD
for de novo 3D generation on GEOM-DRUGS, and a 13% average relative gain for
conditional 3D generation on QM9-2014. Our codes and pretrained checkpoints are
available at https://github.com/acharkq/NExT-Mol.

---

## 18. [InfiR : Crafting Effective Small Language Models and Multimodal Small
  Language Models in Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.11573)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.11573](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11573)

**Authors**: Congkai Xie, Shuo Cai, Wenjun Wang, Zhijie Sang, Kejing Yang, Zhen Li, Guanghao Zhu, Zeyu Liu, Yang Yu, Yuhang Liu, Su Lu, Baoyi He, Qi Zhou, Xiaotian Han, Jianbo Yuan, Shengyu Zhang, Fei Wu, Hongxia Yang

**Published**: 2025-02-17 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Drishti Sharma

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Reallm-Labs/InfiR)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) and Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs)
have made significant advancements in reasoning capabilities. However, they
still face challenges such as high computational demands and privacy concerns.
This paper focuses on developing efficient Small Language Models (SLMs) and
Multimodal Small Language Models (MSLMs) that retain competitive reasoning
abilities. We introduce a novel training pipeline that enhances reasoning
capabilities and facilitates deployment on edge devices, achieving
state-of-the-art performance while minimizing development costs. \InfR~ aims to
advance AI systems by improving reasoning, reducing adoption barriers, and
addressing privacy concerns through smaller model sizes. Resources are
available at https://github. com/Reallm-Labs/InfiR.

---

## 19. [AdaptiveStep: Automatically Dividing Reasoning Step through Model
  Confidence](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13943)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13943](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13943)

**Authors**: Yuliang Liu, Junjie Lu, Zhaoling Chen, Chaofeng Qu, Jason Klein Liu, Chonghan Liu, Zefan Cai, Yunhui Xia, Li Zhao, Jiang Bian, Chuheng Zhang, Wei Shen, Zhouhan Lin

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Yuliang Liu

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lux0926/asprm)

### Abstract

Current approaches for training Process Reward Models (PRMs) often involve
breaking down responses into multiple reasoning steps using rule-based
techniques, such as using predefined placeholder tokens or setting the
reasoning step's length into a fixed size. These approaches overlook the fact
that specific words do not typically mark true decision points in a text. To
address this, we propose AdaptiveStep, a method that divides reasoning steps
based on the model's confidence in predicting the next word. This division
method provides more decision-making information at each step, enhancing
downstream tasks, such as reward model learning. Moreover, our method does not
require manual annotation. We demonstrate its effectiveness through experiments
with AdaptiveStep-trained PRMs in mathematical reasoning and code generation
tasks. Experimental results indicate that the outcome PRM achieves
state-of-the-art Best-of-N performance, surpassing greedy search strategy with
token-level value-guided decoding, while also reducing construction costs by
over 30% compared to existing open-source PRMs. In addition, we provide a
thorough analysis and case study on the PRM's performance, transferability, and
generalization capabilities.

---

## 20. [AIDE: AI-Driven Exploration in the Space of Code](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13138)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13138](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13138)

**Authors**: Zhengyao Jiang, Dominik Schmidt, Dhruv Srikanth, Dixing Xu, Ian Kaplan, Deniss Jacenko, Yuxiang Wu

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Dex Dixing Xu

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/WecoAI/aideml)

### Abstract

Machine learning, the foundation of modern artificial intelligence, has
driven innovations that have fundamentally transformed the world. Yet, behind
advancements lies a complex and often tedious process requiring labor and
compute intensive iteration and experimentation. Engineers and scientists
developing machine learning models spend much of their time on trial-and-error
tasks instead of conceptualizing innovative solutions or research hypotheses.
To address this challenge, we introduce AI-Driven Exploration (AIDE), a machine
learning engineering agent powered by large language models (LLMs). AIDE frames
machine learning engineering as a code optimization problem, and formulates
trial-and-error as a tree search in the space of potential solutions. By
strategically reusing and refining promising solutions, AIDE effectively trades
computational resources for enhanced performance, achieving state-of-the-art
results on multiple machine learning engineering benchmarks, including our
Kaggle evaluations, OpenAI MLE-Bench and METRs RE-Bench.

---

## 21. [TESS 2: A Large-Scale Generalist Diffusion Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13917)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13917](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13917)

**Authors**: Jaesung Tae, Hamish Ivison, Sachin Kumar, Arman Cohan

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Hamish Ivison

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hamishivi/tess-2) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/spaces/hamishivi/tess-2-demo)

### Abstract

We introduce TESS 2, a general instruction-following diffusion language model
that outperforms contemporary instruction-tuned diffusion models, as well as
matches and sometimes exceeds strong autoregressive (AR) models. We train TESS
2 by first adapting a strong AR model via continued pretraining with the usual
cross-entropy as diffusion loss, and then performing further instruction
tuning. We find that adaptation training as well as the choice of the base
model is crucial for training good instruction-following diffusion models. We
further propose reward guidance, a novel and modular inference-time guidance
procedure to align model outputs without needing to train the underlying model.
Finally, we show that TESS 2 further improves with increased inference-time
compute, highlighting the utility of diffusion LMs in having fine-grained
controllability over the amount of compute used at inference time. Code and
models are available at https://github.com/hamishivi/tess-2.

---

## 22. [REALTALK: A 21-Day Real-World Dataset for Long-Term Conversation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13270)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13270](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13270)

**Authors**: Dong-Ho Lee, Adyasha Maharana, Jay Pujara, Xiang Ren, Francesco Barbieri

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Dong-Ho Lee

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/danny911kr/REALTALK)

### Abstract

Long-term, open-domain dialogue capabilities are essential for chatbots
aiming to recall past interactions and demonstrate emotional intelligence (EI).
Yet, most existing research relies on synthetic, LLM-generated data, leaving
open questions about real-world conversational patterns. To address this gap,
we introduce REALTALK, a 21-day corpus of authentic messaging app dialogues,
providing a direct benchmark against genuine human interactions.
  We first conduct a dataset analysis, focusing on EI attributes and persona
consistency to understand the unique challenges posed by real-world dialogues.
By comparing with LLM-generated conversations, we highlight key differences,
including diverse emotional expressions and variations in persona stability
that synthetic dialogues often fail to capture.
  Building on these insights, we introduce two benchmark tasks: (1) persona
simulation where a model continues a conversation on behalf of a specific user
given prior dialogue context; and (2) memory probing where a model answers
targeted questions requiring long-term memory of past interactions.
  Our findings reveal that models struggle to simulate a user solely from
dialogue history, while fine-tuning on specific user chats improves persona
emulation. Additionally, existing models face significant challenges in
recalling and leveraging long-term context within real-world conversations.

---

## 23. [Judging the Judges: A Collection of LLM-Generated Relevance Judgements](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13908)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13908](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13908)

**Authors**: Hossein A. Rahmani, Clemencia Siro, Mohammad Aliannejadi, Nick Craswell, Charles L. A. Clarke, Guglielmo Faggioli, Bhaskar Mitra, Paul Thomas, Emine Yilmaz

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Hossein A. (Saeed) Rahmani

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/llm4eval/LLMJudge) | [Project Page](https://llm4eval.github.io/LLMJudge-benchmark/)

### Abstract

Using Large Language Models (LLMs) for relevance assessments offers promising
opportunities to improve Information Retrieval (IR), Natural Language
Processing (NLP), and related fields. Indeed, LLMs hold the promise of allowing
IR experimenters to build evaluation collections with a fraction of the manual
human labor currently required. This could help with fresh topics on which
there is still limited knowledge and could mitigate the challenges of
evaluating ranking systems in low-resource scenarios, where it is challenging
to find human annotators. Given the fast-paced recent developments in the
domain, many questions concerning LLMs as assessors are yet to be answered.
Among the aspects that require further investigation, we can list the impact of
various components in a relevance judgment generation pipeline, such as the
prompt used or the LLM chosen.
  This paper benchmarks and reports on the results of a large-scale automatic
relevance judgment evaluation, the LLMJudge challenge at SIGIR 2024, where
different relevance assessment approaches were proposed. In detail, we release
and benchmark 42 LLM-generated labels of the TREC 2023 Deep Learning track
relevance judgments produced by eight international teams who participated in
the challenge. Given their diverse nature, these automatically generated
relevance judgments can help the community not only investigate systematic
biases caused by LLMs but also explore the effectiveness of ensemble models,
analyze the trade-offs between different models and human assessors, and
advance methodologies for improving automated evaluation techniques. The
released resource is available at the following link:
https://llm4eval.github.io/LLMJudge-benchmark/

---

## 24. [From Tools to Teammates: Evaluating LLMs in Multi-Session Coding
  Interactions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13791)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13791](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13791)

**Authors**: Nathanaël Carraz Rakotonirina, Mohammed Hamdy, Jon Ander Campos, Lucas Weber, Alberto Testoni, Marzieh Fadaee, Sandro Pezzelle, Marco Del Tredici

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Mohammed Hamdy

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Cohere-Labs-Community/MemoryCode)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly used in working environments
for a wide range of tasks, excelling at solving individual problems in
isolation. However, are they also able to effectively collaborate over
long-term interactions? To investigate this, we introduce MemoryCode, a
synthetic multi-session dataset designed to test LLMs' ability to track and
execute simple coding instructions amid irrelevant information, simulating a
realistic setting. While all the models we tested handle isolated instructions
well, even the performance of state-of-the-art models like GPT-4o deteriorates
when instructions are spread across sessions. Our analysis suggests this is due
to their failure to retrieve and integrate information over long instruction
chains. Our results highlight a fundamental limitation of current LLMs,
restricting their ability to collaborate effectively in long interactions.

---

## 25. [ActionPiece: Contextually Tokenizing Action Sequences for Generative
  Recommendation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13581)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13581](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13581)

**Authors**: Yupeng Hou, Jianmo Ni, Zhankui He, Noveen Sachdeva, Wang-Cheng Kang, Ed H. Chi, Julian McAuley, Derek Zhiyuan Cheng

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Yupeng Hou

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-deepmind/action_piece)

### Abstract

Generative recommendation (GR) is an emerging paradigm where user actions are
tokenized into discrete token patterns and autoregressively generated as
predictions. However, existing GR models tokenize each action independently,
assigning the same fixed tokens to identical actions across all sequences
without considering contextual relationships. This lack of context-awareness
can lead to suboptimal performance, as the same action may hold different
meanings depending on its surrounding context. To address this issue, we
propose ActionPiece to explicitly incorporate context when tokenizing action
sequences. In ActionPiece, each action is represented as a set of item
features, which serve as the initial tokens. Given the action sequence corpora,
we construct the vocabulary by merging feature patterns as new tokens, based on
their co-occurrence frequency both within individual sets and across adjacent
sets. Considering the unordered nature of feature sets, we further introduce
set permutation regularization, which produces multiple segmentations of action
sequences with the same semantics. Experiments on public datasets demonstrate
that ActionPiece consistently outperforms existing action tokenization methods,
improving NDCG@10 by 6.00% to 12.82%.

---

## 26. [Which of These Best Describes Multiple Choice Evaluation with LLMs? A)
  Forced B) Flawed C) Fixable D) All of the Above](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14127)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.14127](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14127)

**Authors**: Nishant Balepur, Rachel Rudinger, Jordan Lee Boyd-Graber

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Nishant Balepur

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Multiple choice question answering (MCQA) is popular for LLM evaluation due
to its simplicity and human-like testing, but we argue for its reform. We first
reveal flaws in MCQA's format, as it struggles to: 1) test
generation/subjectivity; 2) match LLM use cases; and 3) fully test knowledge.
We instead advocate for generative formats based on human testing-where LLMs
construct and explain answers-better capturing user needs and knowledge while
remaining easy to score. We then show even when MCQA is a useful format, its
datasets suffer from: leakage; unanswerability; shortcuts; and saturation. In
each issue, we give fixes from education, like rubrics to guide MCQ writing;
scoring methods to bridle guessing; and Item Response Theory to build harder
MCQs. Lastly, we discuss LLM errors in MCQA-robustness, biases, and unfaithful
explanations-showing how our prior solutions better measure or address these
issues. While we do not need to desert MCQA, we encourage more efforts in
refining the task based on educational testing, advancing evaluations.

---

## 27. [REFIND: Retrieval-Augmented Factuality Hallucination Detection in Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13622)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13622](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13622)

**Authors**: DongGeon Lee, Hwanjo Yu

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by DongGeon Lee

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/oneonlee/REFIND)

### Abstract

Hallucinations in large language model (LLM) outputs severely limit their
reliability in knowledge-intensive tasks such as question answering. To address
this challenge, we introduce REFIND (Retrieval-augmented Factuality
hallucINation Detection), a novel framework that detects hallucinated spans
within LLM outputs by directly leveraging retrieved documents. As part of the
REFIND, we propose the Context Sensitivity Ratio (CSR), a novel metric that
quantifies the sensitivity of LLM outputs to retrieved evidence. This
innovative approach enables REFIND to efficiently and accurately detect
hallucinations, setting it apart from existing methods. In the evaluation,
REFIND demonstrated robustness across nine languages, including low-resource
settings, and significantly outperformed baseline models, achieving superior
IoU scores in identifying hallucinated spans. This work highlights the
effectiveness of quantifying context sensitivity for hallucination detection,
thereby paving the way for more reliable and trustworthy LLM applications
across diverse languages.

---

## 28. [High-Fidelity Novel View Synthesis via Splatting-Guided Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.12752)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.12752](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12752)

**Authors**: Xiang Zhang, Yang Zhang, Lukas Mehl, Markus Gross, Christopher Schroers

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Xiang Zhang

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Despite recent advances in Novel View Synthesis (NVS), generating
high-fidelity views from single or sparse observations remains a significant
challenge. Existing splatting-based approaches often produce distorted geometry
due to splatting errors. While diffusion-based methods leverage rich 3D priors
to achieve improved geometry, they often suffer from texture hallucination. In
this paper, we introduce SplatDiff, a pixel-splatting-guided video diffusion
model designed to synthesize high-fidelity novel views from a single image.
Specifically, we propose an aligned synthesis strategy for precise control of
target viewpoints and geometry-consistent view synthesis. To mitigate texture
hallucination, we design a texture bridge module that enables high-fidelity
texture generation through adaptive feature fusion. In this manner, SplatDiff
leverages the strengths of splatting and diffusion to generate novel views with
consistent geometry and high-fidelity details. Extensive experiments verify the
state-of-the-art performance of SplatDiff in single-view NVS. Additionally,
without extra training, SplatDiff shows remarkable zero-shot performance across
diverse tasks, including sparse-view NVS and stereo video conversion.

---

## 29. [GIMMICK -- Globally Inclusive Multimodal Multitask Cultural Knowledge
  Benchmarking](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13766)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13766](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13766)

**Authors**: Florian Schneider, Carolin Holtermann, Chris Biemann, Anne Lauscher

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Flo Schneider

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/floschne/gimmick)

### Abstract

Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have recently gained attention due to
their distinctive performance and broad applicability. While it has been
previously shown that their efficacy in usage scenarios involving non-Western
contexts falls short, existing studies are limited in scope, covering just a
narrow range of cultures, focusing exclusively on a small number of cultural
aspects, or evaluating a limited selection of models on a single task only.
Towards globally inclusive LVLM research, we introduce GIMMICK, an extensive
multimodal benchmark designed to assess a broad spectrum of cultural knowledge
across 144 countries representing six global macro-regions. GIMMICK comprises
six tasks built upon three new datasets that span 728 unique cultural events or
facets on which we evaluated 20 LVLMs and 11 LLMs, including five proprietary
and 26 open-weight models of all sizes. We systematically examine (1) regional
cultural biases, (2) the influence of model size, (3) input modalities, and (4)
external cues. Our analyses reveal strong biases toward Western cultures across
models and tasks and highlight strong correlations between model size and
performance, as well as the effectiveness of multimodal input and external
geographic cues. We further find that models have more knowledge of tangible
than intangible aspects (e.g., food vs. rituals) and that they excel in
recognizing broad cultural origins but struggle with a more nuanced
understanding.

---

## 30. [Noise May Contain Transferable Knowledge: Understanding Semi-supervised
  Heterogeneous Domain Adaptation from an Empirical Perspective](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13573)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13573](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13573)

**Authors**: Yuan Yao, Xiaopu Zhang, Yu Zhang, Jian Jin, Qiang Yang

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Yuan Yao

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yyyaoyuan/SHDA)

### Abstract

Semi-supervised heterogeneous domain adaptation (SHDA) addresses learning
across domains with distinct feature representations and distributions, where
source samples are labeled while most target samples are unlabeled, with only a
small fraction labeled. Moreover, there is no one-to-one correspondence between
source and target samples. Although various SHDA methods have been developed to
tackle this problem, the nature of the knowledge transferred across
heterogeneous domains remains unclear. This paper delves into this question
from an empirical perspective. We conduct extensive experiments on about 330
SHDA tasks, employing two supervised learning methods and seven representative
SHDA methods. Surprisingly, our observations indicate that both the category
and feature information of source samples do not significantly impact the
performance of the target domain. Additionally, noise drawn from simple
distributions, when used as source samples, may contain transferable knowledge.
Based on this insight, we perform a series of experiments to uncover the
underlying principles of transferable knowledge in SHDA. Specifically, we
design a unified Knowledge Transfer Framework (KTF) for SHDA. Based on the KTF,
we find that the transferable knowledge in SHDA primarily stems from the
transferability and discriminability of the source domain. Consequently,
ensuring those properties in source samples, regardless of their origin (e.g.,
image, text, noise), can enhance the effectiveness of knowledge transfer in
SHDA tasks. The codes and datasets are available at
https://github.com/yyyaoyuan/SHDA.

---

## 31. [MVL-SIB: A Massively Multilingual Vision-Language Benchmark for
  Cross-Modal Topical Matching](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.12852)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.12852](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12852)

**Authors**: Fabian David Schmidt, Florian Schneider, Chris Biemann, Goran Glavaš

**Published**: 2025-02-18 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Fabian David Schmidt

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/datasets/WueNLP/mvl-sib)

### Abstract

Existing multilingual vision-language (VL) benchmarks often only cover a
handful of languages. Consequently, evaluations of large vision-language models
(LVLMs) predominantly target high-resource languages, underscoring the need for
evaluation data for low-resource languages. To address this limitation, we
introduce MVL-SIB, a massively multilingual vision-language benchmark that
evaluates both cross-modal and text-only topical matching across 205 languages
-- over 100 more than the most multilingual existing VL benchmarks encompass.
We then benchmark a range of of open-weight LVLMs together with GPT-4o(-mini)
on MVL-SIB. Our results reveal that LVLMs struggle in cross-modal topic
matching in lower-resource languages, performing no better than chance on
languages like N'Koo. Our analysis further reveals that VL support in LVLMs
declines disproportionately relative to textual support for lower-resource
languages, as evidenced by comparison of cross-modal and text-only topical
matching performance. We further observe that open-weight LVLMs do not benefit
from representing a topic with more than one image, suggesting that these
models are not yet fully effective at handling multi-image tasks. By
correlating performance on MVL-SIB with other multilingual VL benchmarks, we
highlight that MVL-SIB serves as a comprehensive probe of multilingual VL
understanding in LVLMs.

---

## 32. [Reducing Hallucinations in Language Model-based SPARQL Query Generation
  Using Post-Generation Memory Retrieval](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.13369)

**ArXiv ID**: [2502.13369](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13369)

**Authors**: Aditya Sharma, Luis Lara, Amal Zouaq, Christopher J. Pal

**Published**: 2025-02-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-02-20 by Luis Lara

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

The ability to generate SPARQL queries from natural language questions is
crucial for ensuring efficient and accurate retrieval of structured data from
knowledge graphs (KG). While large language models (LLMs) have been widely
adopted for SPARQL query generation, they are often susceptible to
hallucinations and out-of-distribution errors when producing KG elements like
Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) based on internal parametric knowledge.
This often results in content that appears plausible but is factually
incorrect, posing significant challenges for their use in real-world
information retrieval (IR) applications. This has led to increased research
aimed at detecting and mitigating such errors. In this paper, we introduce PGMR
(Post-Generation Memory Retrieval), a modular framework that incorporates a
non-parametric memory module to retrieve KG elements and enhance LLM-based
SPARQL query generation. Our experimental results indicate that PGMR
consistently delivers strong performance across diverse datasets, data
distributions, and LLMs. Notably, PGMR significantly mitigates URI
hallucinations, nearly eliminating the problem in several scenarios.

---
