# Daily Papers - 2024-11-27

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-11-27)

Total papers: 20

---

## 1. [ShowUI: One Vision-Language-Action Model for GUI Visual Agent](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17465)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17465](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17465)

**Authors**: Kevin Qinghong Lin, Linjie Li, Difei Gao, Zhengyuan Yang, Shiwei Wu, Zechen Bai, Weixian Lei, Lijuan Wang, Mike Zheng Shou

**Published**: 2024-11-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Qinghong (Kevin) Lin

**Upvotes**: 90

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/showlab/ShowUI)

### Abstract

Building Graphical User Interface (GUI) assistants holds significant promise
for enhancing human workflow productivity. While most agents are
language-based, relying on closed-source API with text-rich meta-information
(e.g., HTML or accessibility tree), they show limitations in perceiving UI
visuals as humans do, highlighting the need for GUI visual agents. In this
work, we develop a vision-language-action model in digital world, namely
ShowUI, which features the following innovations: (i) UI-Guided Visual Token
Selection to reduce computational costs by formulating screenshots as an UI
connected graph, adaptively identifying their redundant relationship and serve
as the criteria for token selection during self-attention blocks; (ii)
Interleaved Vision-Language-Action Streaming that flexibly unifies diverse
needs within GUI tasks, enabling effective management of visual-action history
in navigation or pairing multi-turn query-action sequences per screenshot to
enhance training efficiency; (iii) Small-scale High-quality GUI
Instruction-following Datasets by careful data curation and employing a
resampling strategy to address significant data type imbalances. With above
components, ShowUI, a lightweight 2B model using 256K data, achieves a strong
75.1% accuracy in zero-shot screenshot grounding. Its UI-guided token selection
further reduces 33% of redundant visual tokens during training and speeds up
the performance by 1.4x. Navigation experiments across web Mind2Web, mobile
AITW, and online MiniWob environments further underscore the effectiveness and
potential of our model in advancing GUI visual agents. The models are available
at https://github.com/showlab/ShowUI.

---

## 2. [ROICtrl: Boosting Instance Control for Visual Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17949)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17949](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17949)

**Authors**: Yuchao Gu, Yipin Zhou, Yunfan Ye, Yixin Nie, Licheng Yu, Pingchuan Ma, Kevin Qinghong Lin, Mike Zheng Shou

**Published**: 2024-11-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Gu Yuchao

**Upvotes**: 87

### Abstract

Natural language often struggles to accurately associate positional and
attribute information with multiple instances, which limits current text-based
visual generation models to simpler compositions featuring only a few dominant
instances. To address this limitation, this work enhances diffusion models by
introducing regional instance control, where each instance is governed by a
bounding box paired with a free-form caption. Previous methods in this area
typically rely on implicit position encoding or explicit attention masks to
separate regions of interest (ROIs), resulting in either inaccurate coordinate
injection or large computational overhead. Inspired by ROI-Align in object
detection, we introduce a complementary operation called ROI-Unpool. Together,
ROI-Align and ROI-Unpool enable explicit, efficient, and accurate ROI
manipulation on high-resolution feature maps for visual generation. Building on
ROI-Unpool, we propose ROICtrl, an adapter for pretrained diffusion models that
enables precise regional instance control. ROICtrl is compatible with
community-finetuned diffusion models, as well as with existing spatial-based
add-ons (\eg, ControlNet, T2I-Adapter) and embedding-based add-ons (\eg,
IP-Adapter, ED-LoRA), extending their applications to multi-instance
generation. Experiments show that ROICtrl achieves superior performance in
regional instance control while significantly reducing computational costs.

---

## 3. [Identity-Preserving Text-to-Video Generation by Frequency Decomposition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17440)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17440](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17440)

**Authors**: Shenghai Yuan, Jinfa Huang, Xianyi He, Yunyuan Ge, Yujun Shi, Liuhan Chen, Jiebo Luo, Li Yuan

**Published**: 2024-11-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by YSH

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/PKU-YuanGroup/ConsisID) | [Project Page](https://pku-yuangroup.github.io/ConsisID/)

### Abstract

Identity-preserving text-to-video (IPT2V) generation aims to create
high-fidelity videos with consistent human identity. It is an important task in
video generation but remains an open problem for generative models. This paper
pushes the technical frontier of IPT2V in two directions that have not been
resolved in literature: (1) A tuning-free pipeline without tedious case-by-case
finetuning, and (2) A frequency-aware heuristic identity-preserving DiT-based
control scheme. We propose ConsisID, a tuning-free DiT-based controllable IPT2V
model to keep human identity consistent in the generated video. Inspired by
prior findings in frequency analysis of diffusion transformers, it employs
identity-control signals in the frequency domain, where facial features can be
decomposed into low-frequency global features and high-frequency intrinsic
features. First, from a low-frequency perspective, we introduce a global facial
extractor, which encodes reference images and facial key points into a latent
space, generating features enriched with low-frequency information. These
features are then integrated into shallow layers of the network to alleviate
training challenges associated with DiT. Second, from a high-frequency
perspective, we design a local facial extractor to capture high-frequency
details and inject them into transformer blocks, enhancing the model's ability
to preserve fine-grained features. We propose a hierarchical training strategy
to leverage frequency information for identity preservation, transforming a
vanilla pre-trained video generation model into an IPT2V model. Extensive
experiments demonstrate that our frequency-aware heuristic scheme provides an
optimal control solution for DiT-based models. Thanks to this scheme, our
ConsisID generates high-quality, identity-preserving videos, making strides
towards more effective IPT2V.

---

## 4. [Pathways on the Image Manifold: Image Editing via Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.16819)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.16819](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16819)

**Authors**: Noam Rotstein, Gal Yona, Daniel Silver, Roy Velich, David Bensaïd, Ron Kimmel

**Published**: 2024-11-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by noam rotstein

**Upvotes**: 37

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/RotsteinNoam/Frame2Frame) | [Project Page](https://rotsteinnoam.github.io/Frame2Frame/)

### Abstract

Recent advances in image editing, driven by image diffusion models, have
shown remarkable progress. However, significant challenges remain, as these
models often struggle to follow complex edit instructions accurately and
frequently compromise fidelity by altering key elements of the original image.
Simultaneously, video generation has made remarkable strides, with models that
effectively function as consistent and continuous world simulators. In this
paper, we propose merging these two fields by utilizing image-to-video models
for image editing. We reformulate image editing as a temporal process, using
pretrained video models to create smooth transitions from the original image to
the desired edit. This approach traverses the image manifold continuously,
ensuring consistent edits while preserving the original image's key aspects.
Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results on text-based image editing,
demonstrating significant improvements in both edit accuracy and image
preservation.

---

## 5. [MARVEL-40M+: Multi-Level Visual Elaboration for High-Fidelity Text-to-3D
  Content Creation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17945)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17945](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17945)

**Organization**: Augmented Vision

**Authors**: Sankalp Sinha, Mohammad Sadil Khan, Muhammad Usama, Shino Sam, Didier Stricker, Sk Aziz Ali, Muhammad Zeshan Afzal

**Published**: 2024-11-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Mohammad Sadil Khan

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SadilKhan/MARVEL-FX3D) | [Project Page](https://sankalpsinha-cmos.github.io/MARVEL/)

### Abstract

Generating high-fidelity 3D content from text prompts remains a significant
challenge in computer vision due to the limited size, diversity, and annotation
depth of the existing datasets. To address this, we introduce MARVEL-40M+, an
extensive dataset with 40 million text annotations for over 8.9 million 3D
assets aggregated from seven major 3D datasets. Our contribution is a novel
multi-stage annotation pipeline that integrates open-source pretrained
multi-view VLMs and LLMs to automatically produce multi-level descriptions,
ranging from detailed (150-200 words) to concise semantic tags (10-20 words).
This structure supports both fine-grained 3D reconstruction and rapid
prototyping. Furthermore, we incorporate human metadata from source datasets
into our annotation pipeline to add domain-specific information in our
annotation and reduce VLM hallucinations. Additionally, we develop MARVEL-FX3D,
a two-stage text-to-3D pipeline. We fine-tune Stable Diffusion with our
annotations and use a pretrained image-to-3D network to generate 3D textured
meshes within 15s. Extensive evaluations show that MARVEL-40M+ significantly
outperforms existing datasets in annotation quality and linguistic diversity,
achieving win rates of 72.41% by GPT-4 and 73.40% by human evaluators.

---

## 6. [MME-Survey: A Comprehensive Survey on Evaluation of Multimodal LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.15296)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.15296](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15296)

**Authors**: Chaoyou Fu, Yi-Fan Zhang, Shukang Yin, Bo Li, Xinyu Fang, Sirui Zhao, Haodong Duan, Xing Sun, Ziwei Liu, Liang Wang, Caifeng Shan, Ran He

**Published**: 2024-11-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Yi-Fan Zhang

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

As a prominent direction of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI), Multimodal
Large Language Models (MLLMs) have garnered increased attention from both
industry and academia. Building upon pre-trained LLMs, this family of models
further develops multimodal perception and reasoning capabilities that are
impressive, such as writing code given a flow chart or creating stories based
on an image. In the development process, evaluation is critical since it
provides intuitive feedback and guidance on improving models. Distinct from the
traditional train-eval-test paradigm that only favors a single task like image
classification, the versatility of MLLMs has spurred the rise of various new
benchmarks and evaluation methods. In this paper, we aim to present a
comprehensive survey of MLLM evaluation, discussing four key aspects: 1) the
summarised benchmarks types divided by the evaluation capabilities, including
foundation capabilities, model self-analysis, and extented applications; 2) the
typical process of benchmark counstruction, consisting of data collection,
annotation, and precautions; 3) the systematic evaluation manner composed of
judge, metric, and toolkit; 4) the outlook for the next benchmark. This work
aims to offer researchers an easy grasp of how to effectively evaluate MLLMs
according to different needs and to inspire better evaluation methods, thereby
driving the progress of MLLM research.

---

## 7. [Interleaved Scene Graph for Interleaved Text-and-Image Generation
  Assessment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17188)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17188](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17188)

**Authors**: Dongping Chen, Ruoxi Chen, Shu Pu, Zhaoyi Liu, Yanru Wu, Caixi Chen, Benlin Liu, Yue Huang, Yao Wan, Pan Zhou, Ranjay Krishna

**Published**: 2024-11-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Chen Dongping

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

Many real-world user queries (e.g. "How do to make egg fried rice?") could
benefit from systems capable of generating responses with both textual steps
with accompanying images, similar to a cookbook. Models designed to generate
interleaved text and images face challenges in ensuring consistency within and
across these modalities. To address these challenges, we present ISG, a
comprehensive evaluation framework for interleaved text-and-image generation.
ISG leverages a scene graph structure to capture relationships between text and
image blocks, evaluating responses on four levels of granularity: holistic,
structural, block-level, and image-specific. This multi-tiered evaluation
allows for a nuanced assessment of consistency, coherence, and accuracy, and
provides interpretable question-answer feedback. In conjunction with ISG, we
introduce a benchmark, ISG-Bench, encompassing 1,150 samples across 8
categories and 21 subcategories. This benchmark dataset includes complex
language-vision dependencies and golden answers to evaluate models effectively
on vision-centric tasks such as style transfer, a challenging area for current
models. Using ISG-Bench, we demonstrate that recent unified vision-language
models perform poorly on generating interleaved content. While compositional
approaches that combine separate language and image models show a 111%
improvement over unified models at the holistic level, their performance
remains suboptimal at both block and image levels. To facilitate future work,
we develop ISG-Agent, a baseline agent employing a "plan-execute-refine"
pipeline to invoke tools, achieving a 122% performance improvement.

---

## 8. [Rethinking Token Reduction in MLLMs: Towards a Unified Paradigm for
  Training-Free Acceleration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17686)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17686](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17686)

**Authors**: Yuhang Han, Xuyang Liu, Pengxiang Ding, Donglin Wang, Honggang Chen, Qingsen Yan, Siteng Huang

**Published**: 2024-11-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Siteng Huang

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kawhiiiileo/FiCoCo) | [Project Page](https://ficoco-accelerate.github.io/)

### Abstract

To accelerate the inference of heavy Multimodal Large Language Models
(MLLMs), this study rethinks the current landscape of training-free token
reduction research. We regret to find that the critical components of existing
methods are tightly intertwined, with their interconnections and effects
remaining unclear for comparison, transfer, and expansion. Therefore, we
propose a unified ''filter-correlate-compress'' paradigm that decomposes the
token reduction into three distinct stages within a pipeline, maintaining
consistent design objectives and elements while allowing for unique
implementations. We additionally demystify the popular works and subsume them
into our paradigm to showcase its universality. Finally, we offer a suite of
methods grounded in the paradigm, striking a balance between speed and accuracy
throughout different phases of the inference. Experimental results across 10
benchmarks indicate that our methods can achieve up to an 82.4% reduction in
FLOPs with a minimal impact on performance, simultaneously surpassing
state-of-the-art training-free methods. Our project page is at
https://ficoco-accelerate.github.io/.

---

## 9. [SketchAgent: Language-Driven Sequential Sketch Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17673)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17673](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17673)

**Authors**: Yael Vinker, Tamar Rott Shaham, Kristine Zheng, Alex Zhao, Judith E Fan, Antonio Torralba

**Published**: 2024-11-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Yael Vinker

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Sketching serves as a versatile tool for externalizing ideas, enabling rapid
exploration and visual communication that spans various disciplines. While
artificial systems have driven substantial advances in content creation and
human-computer interaction, capturing the dynamic and abstract nature of human
sketching remains challenging. In this work, we introduce SketchAgent, a
language-driven, sequential sketch generation method that enables users to
create, modify, and refine sketches through dynamic, conversational
interactions. Our approach requires no training or fine-tuning. Instead, we
leverage the sequential nature and rich prior knowledge of off-the-shelf
multimodal large language models (LLMs). We present an intuitive sketching
language, introduced to the model through in-context examples, enabling it to
"draw" using string-based actions. These are processed into vector graphics and
then rendered to create a sketch on a pixel canvas, which can be accessed again
for further tasks. By drawing stroke by stroke, our agent captures the
evolving, dynamic qualities intrinsic to sketching. We demonstrate that
SketchAgent can generate sketches from diverse prompts, engage in
dialogue-driven drawing, and collaborate meaningfully with human users.

---

## 10. [Low-Bit Quantization Favors Undertrained LLMs: Scaling Laws for
  Quantized LLMs with 100T Training Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17691)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17691](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17691)

**Authors**: Xu Ouyang, Tao Ge, Thomas Hartvigsen, Zhisong Zhang, Haitao Mi, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2024-11-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Tao Ge

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

We reveal that low-bit quantization favors undertrained large language models
(LLMs) by observing that models with larger sizes or fewer training tokens
experience less quantization-induced degradation (QiD) when applying low-bit
quantization, whereas smaller models with extensive training tokens suffer
significant QiD. To gain deeper insights into this trend, we study over 1500
quantized LLM checkpoints of various sizes and at different training levels
(undertrained or fully trained) in a controlled setting, deriving scaling laws
for understanding the relationship between QiD and factors such as the number
of training tokens, model size and bit width.
  With the derived scaling laws, we propose a novel perspective that we can use
QiD to measure an LLM's training levels and determine the number of training
tokens required for fully training LLMs of various sizes. Moreover, we use the
scaling laws to predict the quantization performance of different-sized LLMs
trained with 100 trillion tokens. Our projection shows that the low-bit
quantization performance of future models, which are expected to be trained
with over 100 trillion tokens, may NOT be desirable. This poses a potential
challenge for low-bit quantization in the future and highlights the need for
awareness of a model's training level when evaluating low-bit quantization
research. To facilitate future research on this problem, we release all the
1500+ quantized checkpoints used in this work at
https://huggingface.co/Xu-Ouyang.

---

## 11. [SAR3D: Autoregressive 3D Object Generation and Understanding via
  Multi-scale 3D VQVAE](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.16856)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.16856](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16856)

**Authors**: Yongwei Chen, Yushi Lan, Shangchen Zhou, Tengfei Wang, XIngang Pan

**Published**: 2024-11-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by cyw-3d

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Autoregressive models have demonstrated remarkable success across various
fields, from large language models (LLMs) to large multimodal models (LMMs) and
2D content generation, moving closer to artificial general intelligence (AGI).
Despite these advances, applying autoregressive approaches to 3D object
generation and understanding remains largely unexplored. This paper introduces
Scale AutoRegressive 3D (SAR3D), a novel framework that leverages a multi-scale
3D vector-quantized variational autoencoder (VQVAE) to tokenize 3D objects for
efficient autoregressive generation and detailed understanding. By predicting
the next scale in a multi-scale latent representation instead of the next
single token, SAR3D reduces generation time significantly, achieving fast 3D
object generation in just 0.82 seconds on an A6000 GPU. Additionally, given the
tokens enriched with hierarchical 3D-aware information, we finetune a
pretrained LLM on them, enabling multimodal comprehension of 3D content. Our
experiments show that SAR3D surpasses current 3D generation methods in both
speed and quality and allows LLMs to interpret and caption 3D models
comprehensively.

---

## 12. [VLRewardBench: A Challenging Benchmark for Vision-Language Generative
  Reward Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17451)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17451](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17451)

**Authors**: Lei Li, Yuancheng Wei, Zhihui Xie, Xuqing Yang, Yifan Song, Peiyi Wang, Chenxin An, Tianyu Liu, Sujian Li, Bill Yuchen Lin, Lingpeng Kong, Qi Liu

**Published**: 2024-11-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Lei Li

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Vision-language generative reward models (VL-GenRMs) play a crucial role in
aligning and evaluating multimodal AI systems, yet their own evaluation remains
under-explored. Current assessment methods primarily rely on AI-annotated
preference labels from traditional VL tasks, which can introduce biases and
often fail to effectively challenge state-of-the-art models. To address these
limitations, we introduce VL-RewardBench, a comprehensive benchmark spanning
general multimodal queries, visual hallucination detection, and complex
reasoning tasks. Through our AI-assisted annotation pipeline combining sample
selection with human verification, we curate 1,250 high-quality examples
specifically designed to probe model limitations. Comprehensive evaluation
across 16 leading large vision-language models, demonstrates VL-RewardBench's
effectiveness as a challenging testbed, where even GPT-4o achieves only 65.4%
accuracy, and state-of-the-art open-source models such as Qwen2-VL-72B,
struggle to surpass random-guessing. Importantly, performance on VL-RewardBench
strongly correlates (Pearson's r > 0.9) with MMMU-Pro accuracy using Best-of-N
sampling with VL-GenRMs. Analysis experiments uncover three critical insights
for improving VL-GenRMs: (i) models predominantly fail at basic visual
perception tasks rather than reasoning tasks; (ii) inference-time scaling
benefits vary dramatically by model capacity; and (iii) training VL-GenRMs to
learn to judge substantially boosts judgment capability (+14.7% accuracy for a
7B VL-GenRM). We believe VL-RewardBench along with the experimental insights
will become a valuable resource for advancing VL-GenRMs.

---

## 13. [Learning 3D Representations from Procedural 3D Programs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17467)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17467](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17467)

**Authors**: Xuweiyi Chen, Zezhou Cheng

**Published**: 2024-11-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Xuweiyi Chen

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Self-supervised learning has emerged as a promising approach for acquiring
transferable 3D representations from unlabeled 3D point clouds. Unlike 2D
images, which are widely accessible, acquiring 3D assets requires specialized
expertise or professional 3D scanning equipment, making it difficult to scale
and raising copyright concerns. To address these challenges, we propose
learning 3D representations from procedural 3D programs that automatically
generate 3D shapes using simple primitives and augmentations.
  Remarkably, despite lacking semantic content, the 3D representations learned
from this synthesized dataset perform on par with state-of-the-art
representations learned from semantically recognizable 3D models (e.g.,
airplanes) across various downstream 3D tasks, including shape classification,
part segmentation, and masked point cloud completion. Our analysis further
suggests that current self-supervised learning methods primarily capture
geometric structures rather than high-level semantics.

---

## 14. [SALOVA: Segment-Augmented Long Video Assistant for Targeted Retrieval
  and Routing in Long-Form Video Analysis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.16173)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.16173](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16173)

**Authors**: Junho Kim, Hyunjun Kim, Hosu Lee, Yong Man Ro

**Published**: 2024-11-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Junho Kim

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Despite advances in Large Multi-modal Models, applying them to long and
untrimmed video content remains challenging due to limitations in context
length and substantial memory overhead. These constraints often lead to
significant information loss and reduced relevance in the model responses. With
the exponential growth of video data across web platforms, understanding
long-form video is crucial for advancing generalized intelligence. In this
paper, we introduce SALOVA: Segment-Augmented LOng Video Assistant, a novel
video-LLM framework designed to enhance the comprehension of lengthy video
content through targeted retrieval process. We address two main challenges to
achieve it: (i) We present the SceneWalk dataset, a high-quality collection of
87.8K long videos, each densely captioned at the segment level to enable models
to capture scene continuity and maintain rich descriptive context. (ii) We
develop robust architectural designs integrating dynamic routing mechanism and
spatio-temporal projector to efficiently retrieve and process relevant video
segments based on user queries. Our framework mitigates the limitations of
current video-LMMs by allowing for precise identification and retrieval of
relevant video segments in response to queries, thereby improving the
contextual relevance of the generated responses. Through extensive experiments,
SALOVA demonstrates enhanced capability in processing complex long-form videos,
showing significant capability to maintain contextual integrity across extended
sequences.

---

## 15. [FINECAPTION: Compositional Image Captioning Focusing on Wherever You
  Want at Any Granularity](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.15411)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.15411](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15411)

**Authors**: Hang Hua, Qing Liu, Lingzhi Zhang, Jing Shi, Zhifei Zhang, Yilin Wang, Jianming Zhang, Jiebo Luo

**Published**: 2024-11-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by HangHua

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

The advent of large Vision-Language Models (VLMs) has significantly advanced
multimodal tasks, enabling more sophisticated and accurate reasoning across
various applications, including image and video captioning, visual question
answering, and cross-modal retrieval. Despite their superior capabilities, VLMs
struggle with fine-grained image regional composition information perception.
Specifically, they have difficulty accurately aligning the segmentation masks
with the corresponding semantics and precisely describing the compositional
aspects of the referred regions.
  However, compositionality - the ability to understand and generate novel
combinations of known visual and textual components - is critical for
facilitating coherent reasoning and understanding across modalities by VLMs. To
address this issue, we propose FINECAPTION, a novel VLM that can recognize
arbitrary masks as referential inputs and process high-resolution images for
compositional image captioning at different granularity levels. To support this
endeavor, we introduce COMPOSITIONCAP, a new dataset for multi-grained region
compositional image captioning, which introduces the task of compositional
attribute-aware regional image captioning.
  Empirical results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed model
compared to other state-of-the-art VLMs. Additionally, we analyze the
capabilities of current VLMs in recognizing various visual prompts for
compositional region image captioning, highlighting areas for improvement in
VLM design and training.

---

## 16. [AnchorCrafter: Animate CyberAnchors Saling Your Products via
  Human-Object Interacting Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.17383)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.17383](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17383)

**Authors**: Ziyi Xu, Ziyao Huang, Juan Cao, Yong Zhang, Xiaodong Cun, Qing Shuai, Yuchen Wang, Linchao Bao, Jintao Li, Fan Tang

**Published**: 2024-11-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

The automatic generation of anchor-style product promotion videos presents
promising opportunities in online commerce, advertising, and consumer
engagement. However, this remains a challenging task despite significant
advancements in pose-guided human video generation. In addressing this
challenge, we identify the integration of human-object interactions (HOI) into
pose-guided human video generation as a core issue. To this end, we introduce
AnchorCrafter, a novel diffusion-based system designed to generate 2D videos
featuring a target human and a customized object, achieving high visual
fidelity and controllable interactions. Specifically, we propose two key
innovations: the HOI-appearance perception, which enhances object appearance
recognition from arbitrary multi-view perspectives and disentangles object and
human appearance, and the HOI-motion injection, which enables complex
human-object interactions by overcoming challenges in object trajectory
conditioning and inter-occlusion management. Additionally, we introduce the
HOI-region reweighting loss, a training objective that enhances the learning of
object details. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed system
outperforms existing methods in preserving object appearance and shape
awareness, while simultaneously maintaining consistency in human appearance and
motion. Project page: https://cangcz.github.io/Anchor-Crafter/

---

## 17. [EfficientViM: Efficient Vision Mamba with Hidden State Mixer based State
  Space Duality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.15241)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.15241](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15241)

**Authors**: Sanghyeok Lee, Joonmyung Choi, Hyunwoo J. Kim

**Published**: 2024-11-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Sanghyeok Lee

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mlvlab/EfficientViM)

### Abstract

For the deployment of neural networks in resource-constrained environments,
prior works have built lightweight architectures with convolution and attention
for capturing local and global dependencies, respectively. Recently, the state
space model has emerged as an effective global token interaction with its
favorable linear computational cost in the number of tokens. Yet, efficient
vision backbones built with SSM have been explored less. In this paper, we
introduce Efficient Vision Mamba (EfficientViM), a novel architecture built on
hidden state mixer-based state space duality (HSM-SSD) that efficiently
captures global dependencies with further reduced computational cost. In the
HSM-SSD layer, we redesign the previous SSD layer to enable the channel mixing
operation within hidden states. Additionally, we propose multi-stage hidden
state fusion to further reinforce the representation power of hidden states,
and provide the design alleviating the bottleneck caused by the memory-bound
operations. As a result, the EfficientViM family achieves a new
state-of-the-art speed-accuracy trade-off on ImageNet-1k, offering up to a 0.7%
performance improvement over the second-best model SHViT with faster speed.
Further, we observe significant improvements in throughput and accuracy
compared to prior works, when scaling images or employing distillation
training. Code is available at https://github.com/mlvlab/EfficientViM.

---

## 18. [MolReFlect: Towards In-Context Fine-grained Alignments between Molecules
  and Texts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.14721)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.14721](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14721)

**Authors**: Jiatong Li, Yunqing Liu, Wei Liu, Jingdi Le, Di Zhang, Wenqi Fan, Dongzhan Zhou, Yuqiang Li, Qing Li

**Published**: 2024-11-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Jiatong LI

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Molecule discovery is a pivotal research field, impacting everything from the
medicines we take to the materials we use. Recently, Large Language Models
(LLMs) have been widely adopted in molecule understanding and generation, yet
the alignments between molecules and their corresponding captions remain a
significant challenge. Previous endeavours often treat the molecule as a
general SMILES string or molecular graph, neglecting the fine-grained
alignments between the molecular sub-structures and the descriptive textual
phrases, which are crucial for accurate and explainable predictions. In this
case, we introduce MolReFlect, a novel teacher-student framework designed to
contextually perform the molecule-caption alignments in a fine-grained way. Our
approach initially leverages a larger teacher LLM to label the detailed
alignments by directly extracting critical phrases from molecule captions or
SMILES strings and implying them to corresponding sub-structures or
characteristics. To refine these alignments, we propose In-Context Selective
Reflection, which retrieves previous extraction results as context examples for
teacher LLM to reflect and lets a smaller student LLM select from in-context
reflection and previous extraction results. Finally, we enhance the learning
process of the student LLM through Chain-of-Thought In-Context Molecule Tuning,
integrating the fine-grained alignments and the reasoning processes within the
Chain-of-Thought format. Our experimental results demonstrate that MolReFlect
enables LLMs like Mistral-7B to significantly outperform the previous
baselines, achieving SOTA performance on the ChEBI-20 dataset. This advancement
not only enhances the generative capabilities of LLMs in the molecule-caption
translation task, but also contributes to a more explainable framework.

---

## 19. [Visual Counter Turing Test (VCT^2): Discovering the Challenges for
  AI-Generated Image Detection and Introducing Visual AI Index (V_AI)](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.16754)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.16754](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16754)

**Authors**: Nasrin Imanpour, Shashwat Bajpai, Subhankar Ghosh, Sainath Reddy Sankepally, Abhilekh Borah, Hasnat Md Abdullah, Nishoak Kosaraju, Shreyas Dixit, Ashhar Aziz, Shwetangshu Biswas, Vinija Jain, Aman Chadha, Amit Sheth, Amitava Das

**Published**: 2024-11-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Aman Chadha

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

The proliferation of AI techniques for image generation, coupled with their
increasing accessibility, has raised significant concerns about the potential
misuse of these images to spread misinformation. Recent AI-generated image
detection (AGID) methods include CNNDetection, NPR, DM Image Detection, Fake
Image Detection, DIRE, LASTED, GAN Image Detection, AIDE, SSP, DRCT, RINE,
OCC-CLIP, De-Fake, and Deep Fake Detection. However, we argue that the current
state-of-the-art AGID techniques are inadequate for effectively detecting
contemporary AI-generated images and advocate for a comprehensive reevaluation
of these methods. We introduce the Visual Counter Turing Test (VCT^2), a
benchmark comprising ~130K images generated by contemporary text-to-image
models (Stable Diffusion 2.1, Stable Diffusion XL, Stable Diffusion 3, DALL-E
3, and Midjourney 6). VCT^2 includes two sets of prompts sourced from tweets by
the New York Times Twitter account and captions from the MS COCO dataset. We
also evaluate the performance of the aforementioned AGID techniques on the
VCT^2 benchmark, highlighting their ineffectiveness in detecting AI-generated
images. As image-generative AI models continue to evolve, the need for a
quantifiable framework to evaluate these models becomes increasingly critical.
To meet this need, we propose the Visual AI Index (V_AI), which assesses
generated images from various visual perspectives, including texture complexity
and object coherence, setting a new standard for evaluating image-generative AI
models. To foster research in this domain, we make our
https://huggingface.co/datasets/anonymous1233/COCO_AI and
https://huggingface.co/datasets/anonymous1233/twitter_AI datasets publicly
available.

---

## 20. [Controllable Human Image Generation with Personalized Multi-Garments](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.16801)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.16801](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16801)

**Authors**: Yisol Choi, Sangkyung Kwak, Sihyun Yu, Hyungwon Choi, Jinwoo Shin

**Published**: 2024-11-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-27 by Yisol Choi

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/omnious/BootComp) | [Project Page](https://omnious.github.io/BootComp/)

### Abstract

We present BootComp, a novel framework based on text-to-image diffusion
models for controllable human image generation with multiple reference
garments. Here, the main bottleneck is data acquisition for training:
collecting a large-scale dataset of high-quality reference garment images per
human subject is quite challenging, i.e., ideally, one needs to manually gather
every single garment photograph worn by each human. To address this, we propose
a data generation pipeline to construct a large synthetic dataset, consisting
of human and multiple-garment pairs, by introducing a model to extract any
reference garment images from each human image. To ensure data quality, we also
propose a filtering strategy to remove undesirable generated data based on
measuring perceptual similarities between the garment presented in human image
and extracted garment. Finally, by utilizing the constructed synthetic dataset,
we train a diffusion model having two parallel denoising paths that use
multiple garment images as conditions to generate human images while preserving
their fine-grained details. We further show the wide-applicability of our
framework by adapting it to different types of reference-based generation in
the fashion domain, including virtual try-on, and controllable human image
generation with other conditions, e.g., pose, face, etc.

---
