# Daily Papers - 2024-11-20

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-11-20)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [RedPajama: an Open Dataset for Training Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.12372)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.12372](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12372)

**Authors**: Maurice Weber, Daniel Fu, Quentin Anthony, Yonatan Oren, Shane Adams, Anton Alexandrov, Xiaozhong Lyu, Huu Nguyen, Xiaozhe Yao, Virginia Adams, Ben Athiwaratkun, Rahul Chalamala, Kezhen Chen, Max Ryabinin, Tri Dao, Percy Liang, Christopher Ré, Irina Rish, Ce Zhang

**Published**: 2024-11-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-20 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 57

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/togethercomputer/redpajama-data)

### Abstract

Large language models are increasingly becoming a cornerstone technology in
artificial intelligence, the sciences, and society as a whole, yet the optimal
strategies for dataset composition and filtering remain largely elusive. Many
of the top-performing models lack transparency in their dataset curation and
model development processes, posing an obstacle to the development of fully
open language models. In this paper, we identify three core data-related
challenges that must be addressed to advance open-source language models. These
include (1) transparency in model development, including the data curation
process, (2) access to large quantities of high-quality data, and (3)
availability of artifacts and metadata for dataset curation and analysis. To
address these challenges, we release RedPajama-V1, an open reproduction of the
LLaMA training dataset. In addition, we release RedPajama-V2, a massive
web-only dataset consisting of raw, unfiltered text data together with quality
signals and metadata. Together, the RedPajama datasets comprise over 100
trillion tokens spanning multiple domains and with their quality signals
facilitate the filtering of data, aiming to inspire the development of numerous
new datasets. To date, these datasets have already been used in the training of
strong language models used in production, such as Snowflake Arctic,
Salesforce's XGen and AI2's OLMo. To provide insight into the quality of
RedPajama, we present a series of analyses and ablation studies with
decoder-only language models with up to 1.6B parameters. Our findings
demonstrate how quality signals for web data can be effectively leveraged to
curate high-quality subsets of the dataset, underscoring the potential of
RedPajama to advance the development of transparent and high-performing
language models at scale.

---

## 2. [FlipSketch: Flipping Static Drawings to Text-Guided Sketch Animations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.10818)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.10818](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10818)

**Authors**: Hmrishav Bandyopadhyay, Yi-Zhe Song

**Published**: 2024-11-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-20 by Hmrishav Bandyopadhyay

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hmrishavbandy/FlipSketch) | [Project Page](https://hmrishavbandy.github.io/flipsketch-web/)

### Abstract

Sketch animations offer a powerful medium for visual storytelling, from
simple flip-book doodles to professional studio productions. While traditional
animation requires teams of skilled artists to draw key frames and in-between
frames, existing automation attempts still demand significant artistic effort
through precise motion paths or keyframe specification. We present FlipSketch,
a system that brings back the magic of flip-book animation -- just draw your
idea and describe how you want it to move! Our approach harnesses motion priors
from text-to-video diffusion models, adapting them to generate sketch
animations through three key innovations: (i) fine-tuning for sketch-style
frame generation, (ii) a reference frame mechanism that preserves visual
integrity of input sketch through noise refinement, and (iii) a dual-attention
composition that enables fluid motion without losing visual consistency. Unlike
constrained vector animations, our raster frames support dynamic sketch
transformations, capturing the expressive freedom of traditional animation. The
result is an intuitive system that makes sketch animation as simple as doodling
and describing, while maintaining the artistic essence of hand-drawn animation.

---

## 3. [SymDPO: Boosting In-Context Learning of Large Multimodal Models with
  Symbol Demonstration Direct Preference Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.11909)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.11909](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11909)

**Authors**: Hongrui Jia, Chaoya Jiang, Haiyang Xu, Wei Ye, Mengfan Dong, Ming Yan, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, Shikun Zhang

**Published**: 2024-11-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-20 by xuhaiyang

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/APiaoG/SymDPO)

### Abstract

As language models continue to scale, Large Language Models (LLMs) have
exhibited emerging capabilities in In-Context Learning (ICL), enabling them to
solve language tasks by prefixing a few in-context demonstrations (ICDs) as
context. Inspired by these advancements, researchers have extended these
techniques to develop Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) with ICL capabilities.
However, existing LMMs face a critical issue: they often fail to effectively
leverage the visual context in multimodal demonstrations and instead simply
follow textual patterns. This indicates that LMMs do not achieve effective
alignment between multimodal demonstrations and model outputs. To address this
problem, we propose Symbol Demonstration Direct Preference Optimization
(SymDPO). Specifically, SymDPO aims to break the traditional paradigm of
constructing multimodal demonstrations by using random symbols to replace text
answers within instances. This forces the model to carefully understand the
demonstration images and establish a relationship between the images and the
symbols to answer questions correctly. We validate the effectiveness of this
method on multiple benchmarks, demonstrating that with SymDPO, LMMs can more
effectively understand the multimodal context within examples and utilize this
knowledge to answer questions better.

---

## 4. [Continuous Speculative Decoding for Autoregressive Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.11925)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.11925](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11925)

**Authors**: Zili Wang, Robert Zhang, Kun Ding, Qi Yang, Fei Li, Shiming Xiang

**Published**: 2024-11-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-20 by Zili Wang

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/markxcloud/cspd)

### Abstract

Continuous-valued Autoregressive (AR) image generation models have
demonstrated notable superiority over their discrete-token counterparts,
showcasing considerable reconstruction quality and higher generation fidelity.
However, the computational demands of the autoregressive framework result in
significant inference overhead. While speculative decoding has proven effective
in accelerating Large Language Models (LLMs), their adaptation to
continuous-valued visual autoregressive models remains unexplored. This work
generalizes the speculative decoding algorithm from discrete tokens to
continuous space. By analyzing the intrinsic properties of output distribution,
we establish a tailored acceptance criterion for the diffusion distributions
prevalent in such models. To overcome the inconsistency that occurred in
speculative decoding output distributions, we introduce denoising trajectory
alignment and token pre-filling methods. Additionally, we identify the
hard-to-sample distribution in the rejection phase. To mitigate this issue, we
propose a meticulous acceptance-rejection sampling method with a proper upper
bound, thereby circumventing complex integration. Experimental results show
that our continuous speculative decoding achieves a remarkable 2.33times
speed-up on off-the-shelf models while maintaining the output distribution.
Codes will be available at https://github.com/MarkXCloud/CSpD

---

## 5. [ITACLIP: Boosting Training-Free Semantic Segmentation with Image, Text,
  and Architectural Enhancements](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.12044)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.12044](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12044)

**Authors**: M. Arda Aydın, Efe Mert Çırpar, Elvin Abdinli, Gozde Unal, Yusuf H. Sahin

**Published**: 2024-11-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-20 by Mustafa Arda Aydın

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/m-arda-aydn/itaclip)

### Abstract

Recent advances in foundational Vision Language Models (VLMs) have reshaped
the evaluation paradigm in computer vision tasks. These foundational models,
especially CLIP, have accelerated research in open-vocabulary computer vision
tasks, including Open-Vocabulary Semantic Segmentation (OVSS). Although the
initial results are promising, the dense prediction capabilities of VLMs still
require further improvement. In this study, we enhance the semantic
segmentation performance of CLIP by introducing new modules and modifications:
1) architectural changes in the last layer of ViT and the incorporation of
attention maps from the middle layers with the last layer, 2) Image
Engineering: applying data augmentations to enrich input image representations,
and 3) using Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate definitions and synonyms
for each class name to leverage CLIP's open-vocabulary capabilities. Our
training-free method, ITACLIP, outperforms current state-of-the-art approaches
on segmentation benchmarks such as COCO-Stuff, COCO-Object, Pascal Context, and
Pascal VOC. Our code is available at https://github.com/m-arda-aydn/ITACLIP.

---

## 6. [Building Trust: Foundations of Security, Safety and Transparency in AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.12275)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.12275](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12275)

**Authors**: Huzaifa Sidhpurwala, Garth Mollett, Emily Fox, Mark Bestavros, Huamin Chen

**Published**: 2024-11-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-20 by Huzaifa Sidhpurwala

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

This paper explores the rapidly evolving ecosystem of publicly available AI
models, and their potential implications on the security and safety landscape.
As AI models become increasingly prevalent, understanding their potential risks
and vulnerabilities is crucial. We review the current security and safety
scenarios while highlighting challenges such as tracking issues, remediation,
and the apparent absence of AI model lifecycle and ownership processes.
Comprehensive strategies to enhance security and safety for both model
developers and end-users are proposed. This paper aims to provide some of the
foundational pieces for more standardized security, safety, and transparency in
the development and operation of AI models and the larger open ecosystems and
communities forming around them.

---

## 7. [Soft Robotic Dynamic In-Hand Pen Spinning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.12734)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.12734](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12734)

**Authors**: Yunchao Yao, Uksang Yoo, Jean Oh, Christopher G. Atkeson, Jeffrey Ichnowski

**Published**: 2024-11-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [Project Page](https://soft-spin.github.io)

### Abstract

Dynamic in-hand manipulation remains a challenging task for soft robotic
systems that have demonstrated advantages in safe compliant interactions but
struggle with high-speed dynamic tasks. In this work, we present SWIFT, a
system for learning dynamic tasks using a soft and compliant robotic hand.
Unlike previous works that rely on simulation, quasi-static actions and precise
object models, the proposed system learns to spin a pen through trial-and-error
using only real-world data without requiring explicit prior knowledge of the
pen's physical attributes. With self-labeled trials sampled from the real
world, the system discovers the set of pen grasping and spinning primitive
parameters that enables a soft hand to spin a pen robustly and reliably. After
130 sampled actions per object, SWIFT achieves 100% success rate across three
pens with different weights and weight distributions, demonstrating the
system's generalizability and robustness to changes in object properties. The
results highlight the potential for soft robotic end-effectors to perform
dynamic tasks including rapid in-hand manipulation. We also demonstrate that
SWIFT generalizes to spinning items with different shapes and weights such as a
brush and a screwdriver which we spin with 10/10 and 5/10 success rates
respectively. Videos, data, and code are available at
https://soft-spin.github.io.

---

## 8. [SEAGULL: No-reference Image Quality Assessment for Regions of Interest
  via Vision-Language Instruction Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.10161)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.10161](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10161)

**Authors**: Zewen Chen, Juan Wang, Wen Wang, Sunhan Xu, Hang Xiong, Yun Zeng, Jian Guo, Shuxun Wang, Chunfeng Yuan, Bing Li

**Published**: 2024-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-20 by Zevin

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/chencn2020/seagull)

### Abstract

Existing Image Quality Assessment (IQA) methods achieve remarkable success in
analyzing quality for overall image, but few works explore quality analysis for
Regions of Interest (ROIs). The quality analysis of ROIs can provide
fine-grained guidance for image quality improvement and is crucial for
scenarios focusing on region-level quality. This paper proposes a novel
network, SEAGULL, which can SEe and Assess ROIs quality with GUidance from a
Large vision-Language model. SEAGULL incorporates a vision-language model
(VLM), masks generated by Segment Anything Model (SAM) to specify ROIs, and a
meticulously designed Mask-based Feature Extractor (MFE) to extract global and
local tokens for specified ROIs, enabling accurate fine-grained IQA for ROIs.
Moreover, this paper constructs two ROI-based IQA datasets, SEAGULL-100w and
SEAGULL-3k, for training and evaluating ROI-based IQA. SEAGULL-100w comprises
about 100w synthetic distortion images with 33 million ROIs for pre-training to
improve the model's ability of regional quality perception, and SEAGULL-3k
contains about 3k authentic distortion ROIs to enhance the model's ability to
perceive real world distortions. After pre-training on SEAGULL-100w and
fine-tuning on SEAGULL-3k, SEAGULL shows remarkable performance on fine-grained
ROI quality assessment. Code and datasets are publicly available at the
https://github.com/chencn2020/Seagull.

---

## 9. [Evaluating Tokenizer Performance of Large Language Models Across
  Official Indian Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.12240)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.12240](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12240)

**Authors**: S. Tamang, D. J. Bora

**Published**: 2024-11-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-20 by SAGAR TAMANG

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) based on transformer architectures have
revolutionized a variety of domains, with tokenization playing a pivotal role
in their pre-processing and fine-tuning stages. In multilingual models,
particularly those tailored for Indic languages, effective tokenization is
crucial for optimizing performance. This paper presents a comprehensive
evaluation of tokenizers used by 12 LLMs across all 22 official languages of
India, with a focus on comparing the efficiency of their tokenization
processes. We employed the Normalized Sequence Length (NSL) as a key metric in
our analysis. Our findings reveal that the SUTRA tokenizer outperforms all
other models, including several Indic-specific models, excelling in 14
languages. Notable insights include the SUTRA tokenizer's superior handling of
Indic languages, GPT-4o's advancement over its predecessor GPT-4 in processing
Indian languages, and the limited performance of Project Indus in certain
languages. This study underscores the critical importance of developing
targeted tokenization strategies for multilingual and Indic-centric models,
laying the groundwork for future improvements in tokenizer design to enhance
linguistic coverage and model efficiency.

---
