# Daily Papers - 2024-11-01

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-11-01)

Total papers: 16

---

## 1. [Unpacking SDXL Turbo: Interpreting Text-to-Image Models with Sparse
  Autoencoders](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.22366)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.22366](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22366)

**Authors**: Viacheslav Surkov, Chris Wendler, Mikhail Terekhov, Justin Deschenaux, Robert West, Caglar Gulcehre

**Published**: 2024-10-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Viacheslav Surkov

**Upvotes**: 84

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/surkovv/sdxl-unbox)

### Abstract

Sparse autoencoders (SAEs) have become a core ingredient in the reverse
engineering of large-language models (LLMs). For LLMs, they have been shown to
decompose intermediate representations that often are not interpretable
directly into sparse sums of interpretable features, facilitating better
control and subsequent analysis. However, similar analyses and approaches have
been lacking for text-to-image models. We investigated the possibility of using
SAEs to learn interpretable features for a few-step text-to-image diffusion
models, such as SDXL Turbo. To this end, we train SAEs on the updates performed
by transformer blocks within SDXL Turbo's denoising U-net. We find that their
learned features are interpretable, causally influence the generation process,
and reveal specialization among the blocks. In particular, we find one block
that deals mainly with image composition, one that is mainly responsible for
adding local details, and one for color, illumination, and style. Therefore,
our work is an important first step towards better understanding the internals
of generative text-to-image models like SDXL Turbo and showcases the potential
of features learned by SAEs for the visual domain.
  Code is available at https://github.com/surkovv/sdxl-unbox

---

## 2. [What Happened in LLMs Layers when Trained for Fast vs. Slow Thinking: A
  Gradient Perspective](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.23743)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.23743](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23743)

**Authors**: Ming Li, Yanhong Li, Tianyi Zhou

**Published**: 2024-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Tianyi Zhou

**Upvotes**: 64

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MingLiiii/Layer_Gradient)

### Abstract

What makes a difference in the post-training of LLMs? We investigate the
training patterns of different layers in large language models (LLMs), through
the lens of gradient, when training with different responses and initial
models. We are specifically interested in how fast vs. slow thinking affects
the layer-wise gradients, given the recent popularity of training LLMs on
reasoning paths such as chain-of-thoughts (CoT) and process rewards. In our
study, fast thinking without CoT leads to larger gradients and larger
differences of gradients across layers than slow thinking (Detailed CoT),
indicating the learning stability brought by the latter. Moreover, pre-trained
LLMs are less affected by the instability of fast thinking than
instruction-tuned LLMs. Additionally, we study whether the gradient patterns
can reflect the correctness of responses when training different LLMs using
slow vs. fast thinking paths. The results show that the gradients of slow
thinking can distinguish correct and irrelevant reasoning paths. As a
comparison, we conduct similar gradient analyses on non-reasoning knowledge
learning tasks, on which, however, trivially increasing the response length
does not lead to similar behaviors of slow thinking. Our study strengthens
fundamental understandings of LLM training and sheds novel insights on its
efficiency and stability, which pave the way towards building a generalizable
System-2 agent. Our code, data, and gradient statistics can be found in:
https://github.com/MingLiiii/Layer_Gradient.

---

## 3. [A Pointer Network-based Approach for Joint Extraction and Detection of
  Multi-Label Multi-Class Intents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.22476)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.22476](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22476)

**Authors**: Ankan Mullick, Sombit Bose, Abhilash Nandy, Gajula Sai Chaitanya, Pawan Goyal

**Published**: 2024-10-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Abhilash Nandy

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

In task-oriented dialogue systems, intent detection is crucial for
interpreting user queries and providing appropriate responses. Existing
research primarily addresses simple queries with a single intent, lacking
effective systems for handling complex queries with multiple intents and
extracting different intent spans. Additionally, there is a notable absence of
multilingual, multi-intent datasets. This study addresses three critical tasks:
extracting multiple intent spans from queries, detecting multiple intents, and
developing a multi-lingual multi-label intent dataset. We introduce a novel
multi-label multi-class intent detection dataset (MLMCID-dataset) curated from
existing benchmark datasets. We also propose a pointer network-based
architecture (MLMCID) to extract intent spans and detect multiple intents with
coarse and fine-grained labels in the form of sextuplets. Comprehensive
analysis demonstrates the superiority of our pointer network-based system over
baseline approaches in terms of accuracy and F1-score across various datasets.

---

## 4. [SelfCodeAlign: Self-Alignment for Code Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.24198)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.24198](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24198)

**Authors**: Yuxiang Wei, Federico Cassano, Jiawei Liu, Yifeng Ding, Naman Jain, Zachary Mueller, Harm de Vries, Leandro von Werra, Arjun Guha, Lingming Zhang

**Published**: 2024-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Leandro von Werra

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bigcode-project/selfcodealign)

### Abstract

Instruction tuning is a supervised fine-tuning approach that significantly
improves the ability of large language models (LLMs) to follow human
instructions. We propose SelfCodeAlign, the first fully transparent and
permissive pipeline for self-aligning code LLMs without extensive human
annotations or distillation. SelfCodeAlign employs the same base model for
inference throughout the data generation process. It first extracts diverse
coding concepts from high-quality seed snippets to generate new tasks. It then
samples multiple responses per task, pairs each with test cases, and validates
them in a sandbox environment. Finally, passing examples are selected for
instruction tuning. In our primary experiments, we use SelfCodeAlign with
CodeQwen1.5-7B to generate a dataset of 74k instruction-response pairs.
Finetuning on this dataset leads to a model that achieves a 67.1 pass@1 on
HumanEval+, surpassing CodeLlama-70B-Instruct despite being ten times smaller.
Across all benchmarks, this finetuned model consistently outperforms the
original version trained with OctoPack, the previous state-of-the-art method
for instruction tuning without human annotations or distillation. Additionally,
we show that SelfCodeAlign is effective across LLMs of various sizes, from 3B
to 33B, and that the base models can benefit more from alignment with their own
data distribution. We further validate each component's effectiveness in our
pipeline, showing that SelfCodeAlign outperforms both direct distillation from
GPT-4o and leading GPT-3.5-based distillation methods, such as OSS-Instruct and
Evol-Instruct. SelfCodeAlign has also led to the creation of
StarCoder2-Instruct, the first fully transparent, permissively licensed, and
self-aligned code LLM that achieves state-of-the-art coding performance.

---

## 5. [BitStack: Fine-Grained Size Control for Compressed Large Language Models
  in Variable Memory Environments](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.23918)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.23918](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23918)

**Authors**: Xinghao Wang, Pengyu Wang, Bo Wang, Dong Zhang, Yunhua Zhou, Xipeng Qiu

**Published**: 2024-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Dong Zhang

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xinghaow99/bitstack)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized numerous applications, yet
their deployment remains challenged by memory constraints on local devices.
While scaling laws have enhanced LLM capabilities, the primary bottleneck has
shifted from capability to availability, emphasizing the need
for efficient memory management. Traditional compression methods, such as
quantization, often require predefined compression ratios and separate
compression processes for each setting, complicating deployment in variable
memory environments. In this paper, we introduce BitStack, a novel,
training-free weight compression approach that enables megabyte-level
trade-offs between memory usage and model performance. By leveraging weight
decomposition, BitStack can dynamically adjust the model size with minimal
transmission between running memory and storage devices. Our approach
iteratively decomposes weight matrices while considering the significance of
each parameter, resulting in an approximately 1-bit per parameter residual
block in each decomposition iteration. These blocks are sorted and stacked in
storage as basic transmission units, with different quantities loaded based on
current memory availability. Extensive experiments across a wide range of tasks
demonstrate that, despite offering fine-grained size control, BitStack
consistently matches or surpasses strong quantization baselines, particularly
at extreme compression ratios. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first
decomposition-based method that effectively bridges the gap to practical
compression techniques like quantization. Code is available at
https://github.com/xinghaow99/BitStack.

---

## 6. [Constraint Back-translation Improves Complex Instruction Following of
  Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.24175)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.24175](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24175)

**Authors**: Yunjia Qi, Hao Peng, Xiaozhi Wang, Bin Xu, Lei Hou, Juanzi Li

**Published**: 2024-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Hao Peng

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thu-keg/crab)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) struggle to follow instructions with complex
constraints in format, length, etc. Following the conventional
instruction-tuning practice, previous works conduct post-training on complex
instruction-response pairs generated by feeding complex instructions to
advanced LLMs. However, even advanced LLMs cannot follow complex instructions
well, thus limiting the quality of generated data. In this work, we find that
existing datasets inherently contain implicit complex constraints and propose a
novel data generation technique, constraint back-translation. Specifically, we
take the high-quality instruction-response pairs in existing datasets and only
adopt advanced LLMs to add complex constraints already met by the responses to
the instructions, which naturally reduces costs and data noise. In the
experiments, we adopt Llama3-70B-Instruct to back-translate constraints and
create a high-quality complex instruction-response dataset, named CRAB. We
present that post-training on CRAB improves multiple backbone LLMs' complex
instruction-following ability, evaluated on extensive instruction-following
benchmarks. We further find that constraint back-translation also serves as a
useful auxiliary training objective in post-training. Our code, data, and
models will be released to facilitate future research.

---

## 7. [Language Models can Self-Lengthen to Generate Long Texts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.23933)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.23933](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23933)

**Authors**: Shanghaoran Quan, Tianyi Tang, Bowen Yu, An Yang, Dayiheng Liu, Bofei Gao, Jianhong Tu, Yichang Zhang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin

**Published**: 2024-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Bowen Yu

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/QwenLM/Self-Lengthen)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly
enhanced their ability to process long contexts, yet a notable gap remains in
generating long, aligned outputs. This limitation stems from a training gap
where pre-training lacks effective instructions for long-text generation, and
post-training data primarily consists of short query-response pairs. Current
approaches, such as instruction backtranslation and behavior imitation, face
challenges including data quality, copyright issues, and constraints on
proprietary model usage. In this paper, we introduce an innovative iterative
training framework called Self-Lengthen that leverages only the intrinsic
knowledge and skills of LLMs without the need for auxiliary data or proprietary
models. The framework consists of two roles: the Generator and the Extender.
The Generator produces the initial response, which is then split and expanded
by the Extender. This process results in a new, longer response, which is used
to train both the Generator and the Extender iteratively. Through this process,
the models are progressively trained to handle increasingly longer responses.
Experiments on benchmarks and human evaluations show that Self-Lengthen
outperforms existing methods in long-text generation, when applied to top
open-source LLMs such as Qwen2 and LLaMA3. Our code is publicly available at
https://github.com/QwenLM/Self-Lengthen.

---

## 8. [NeuZip: Memory-Efficient Training and Inference with Dynamic Compression
  of Neural Networks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.20650)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.20650](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.20650)

**Authors**: Yongchang Hao, Yanshuai Cao, Lili Mou

**Published**: 2024-10-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Yongchang Hao

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/borealisai/neuzip)

### Abstract

The performance of neural networks improves when more parameters are used.
However, the model sizes are constrained by the available on-device memory
during training and inference. Although applying techniques like quantization
can alleviate the constraint, they suffer from performance degradation. In this
work, we introduce NeuZip, a new weight compression scheme based on the entropy
of floating-point numbers in neural networks. With NeuZip, we are able to
achieve memory-efficient training and inference without sacrificing
performance. Notably, we significantly reduce the memory footprint of training
a Llama-3 8B model from 31GB to less than 16GB, while keeping the training
dynamics fully unchanged. In inference, our method can reduce memory usage by
more than half while maintaining near-lossless performance. Our code is
publicly available.

---

## 9. [Learning Video Representations without Natural Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.24213)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.24213](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24213)

**Authors**: Xinlei Chen, Yossi Gandelsman

**Published**: 2024-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Yossi Gandelsman

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [Project Page](https://unicorn53547.github.io/video_syn_rep/)

### Abstract

In this paper, we show that useful video representations can be learned from
synthetic videos and natural images, without incorporating natural videos in
the training. We propose a progression of video datasets synthesized by simple
generative processes, that model a growing set of natural video properties
(e.g. motion, acceleration, and shape transformations). The downstream
performance of video models pre-trained on these generated datasets gradually
increases with the dataset progression. A VideoMAE model pre-trained on our
synthetic videos closes 97.2% of the performance gap on UCF101 action
classification between training from scratch and self-supervised pre-training
from natural videos, and outperforms the pre-trained model on HMDB51.
Introducing crops of static images to the pre-training stage results in similar
performance to UCF101 pre-training and outperforms the UCF101 pre-trained model
on 11 out of 14 out-of-distribution datasets of UCF101-P. Analyzing the
low-level properties of the datasets, we identify correlations between frame
diversity, frame similarity to natural data, and downstream performance. Our
approach provides a more controllable and transparent alternative to video data
curation processes for pre-training.

---

## 10. [AAAR-1.0: Assessing AI's Potential to Assist Research](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.22394)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.22394](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22394)

**Authors**: Renze Lou, Hanzi Xu, Sijia Wang, Jiangshu Du, Ryo Kamoi, Xiaoxin Lu, Jian Xie, Yuxuan Sun, Yusen Zhang, Jihyun Janice Ahn, Hongchao Fang, Zhuoyang Zou, Wenchao Ma, Xi Li, Kai Zhang, Congying Xia, Lifu Huang, Wenpeng Yin

**Published**: 2024-10-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by RENZE LOU

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Numerous studies have assessed the proficiency of AI systems, particularly
large language models (LLMs), in facilitating everyday tasks such as email
writing, question answering, and creative content generation. However,
researchers face unique challenges and opportunities in leveraging LLMs for
their own work, such as brainstorming research ideas, designing experiments,
and writing or reviewing papers. In this study, we introduce AAAR-1.0, a
benchmark dataset designed to evaluate LLM performance in three fundamental,
expertise-intensive research tasks: (i) EquationInference, assessing the
correctness of equations based on the contextual information in paper
submissions; (ii) ExperimentDesign, designing experiments to validate research
ideas and solutions; (iii) PaperWeakness, identifying weaknesses in paper
submissions; and (iv) REVIEWCRITIQUE, identifying each segment in human reviews
is deficient or not. AAAR-1.0 differs from prior benchmarks in two key ways:
first, it is explicitly research-oriented, with tasks requiring deep domain
expertise; second, it is researcher-oriented, mirroring the primary activities
that researchers engage in on a daily basis. An evaluation of both open-source
and proprietary LLMs reveals their potential as well as limitations in
conducting sophisticated research tasks. We will keep iterating AAAR-1.0 to new
versions.

---

## 11. [Navigating the Unknown: A Chat-Based Collaborative Interface for
  Personalized Exploratory Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.24032)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.24032](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24032)

**Authors**: Yingzhe Peng, Xiaoting Qin, Zhiyang Zhang, Jue Zhang, Qingwei Lin, Xu Yang, Dongmei Zhang, Saravan Rajmohan, Qi Zhang

**Published**: 2024-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Jue Zhang

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

The rise of large language models (LLMs) has revolutionized user interactions
with knowledge-based systems, enabling chatbots to synthesize vast amounts of
information and assist with complex, exploratory tasks. However, LLM-based
chatbots often struggle to provide personalized support, particularly when
users start with vague queries or lack sufficient contextual information. This
paper introduces the Collaborative Assistant for Personalized Exploration
(CARE), a system designed to enhance personalization in exploratory tasks by
combining a multi-agent LLM framework with a structured user interface. CARE's
interface consists of a Chat Panel, Solution Panel, and Needs Panel, enabling
iterative query refinement and dynamic solution generation. The multi-agent
framework collaborates to identify both explicit and implicit user needs,
delivering tailored, actionable solutions. In a within-subject user study with
22 participants, CARE was consistently preferred over a baseline LLM chatbot,
with users praising its ability to reduce cognitive load, inspire creativity,
and provide more tailored solutions. Our findings highlight CARE's potential to
transform LLM-based systems from passive information retrievers to proactive
partners in personalized problem-solving and exploration.

---

## 12. [BenchX: A Unified Benchmark Framework for Medical Vision-Language
  Pretraining on Chest X-Rays](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.21969)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.21969](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21969)

**Authors**: Yang Zhou, Tan Li Hui Faith, Yanyu Xu, Sicong Leng, Xinxing Xu, Yong Liu, Rick Siow Mong Goh

**Published**: 2024-10-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by ZHOU Yang

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yangzhou12/benchx)

### Abstract

Medical Vision-Language Pretraining (MedVLP) shows promise in learning
generalizable and transferable visual representations from paired and unpaired
medical images and reports. MedVLP can provide useful features to downstream
tasks and facilitate adapting task-specific models to new setups using fewer
examples. However, existing MedVLP methods often differ in terms of datasets,
preprocessing, and finetuning implementations. This pose great challenges in
evaluating how well a MedVLP method generalizes to various clinically-relevant
tasks due to the lack of unified, standardized, and comprehensive benchmark. To
fill this gap, we propose BenchX, a unified benchmark framework that enables
head-to-head comparison and systematical analysis between MedVLP methods using
public chest X-ray datasets. Specifically, BenchX is composed of three
components: 1) Comprehensive datasets covering nine datasets and four medical
tasks; 2) Benchmark suites to standardize data preprocessing, train-test
splits, and parameter selection; 3) Unified finetuning protocols that
accommodate heterogeneous MedVLP methods for consistent task adaptation in
classification, segmentation, and report generation, respectively. Utilizing
BenchX, we establish baselines for nine state-of-the-art MedVLP methods and
found that the performance of some early MedVLP methods can be enhanced to
surpass more recent ones, prompting a revisiting of the developments and
conclusions from prior works in MedVLP. Our code are available at
https://github.com/yangzhou12/BenchX.

---

## 13. [DELTA: Dense Efficient Long-range 3D Tracking for any video](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.24211)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.24211](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24211)

**Authors**: Tuan Duc Ngo, Peiye Zhuang, Chuang Gan, Evangelos Kalogerakis, Sergey Tulyakov, Hsin-Ying Lee, Chaoyang Wang

**Published**: 2024-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Hsin-Ying Lee

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [Project Page](https://snap-research.github.io/DELTA/)

### Abstract

Tracking dense 3D motion from monocular videos remains challenging,
particularly when aiming for pixel-level precision over long sequences. We
introduce \Approach, a novel method that efficiently tracks every pixel in 3D
space, enabling accurate motion estimation across entire videos. Our approach
leverages a joint global-local attention mechanism for reduced-resolution
tracking, followed by a transformer-based upsampler to achieve high-resolution
predictions. Unlike existing methods, which are limited by computational
inefficiency or sparse tracking, \Approach delivers dense 3D tracking at scale,
running over 8x faster than previous methods while achieving state-of-the-art
accuracy. Furthermore, we explore the impact of depth representation on
tracking performance and identify log-depth as the optimal choice. Extensive
experiments demonstrate the superiority of \Approach on multiple benchmarks,
achieving new state-of-the-art results in both 2D and 3D dense tracking tasks.
Our method provides a robust solution for applications requiring fine-grained,
long-term motion tracking in 3D space.

---

## 14. [Teaching Embodied Reinforcement Learning Agents: Informativeness and
  Diversity of Language Use](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.24218)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.24218](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24218)

**Authors**: Jiajun Xi, Yinong He, Jianing Yang, Yinpei Dai, Joyce Chai

**Published**: 2024-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Jed Yang

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sled-group/teachable_rl)

### Abstract

In real-world scenarios, it is desirable for embodied agents to have the
ability to leverage human language to gain explicit or implicit knowledge for
learning tasks. Despite recent progress, most previous approaches adopt simple
low-level instructions as language inputs, which may not reflect natural human
communication. It's not clear how to incorporate rich language use to
facilitate task learning. To address this question, this paper studies
different types of language inputs in facilitating reinforcement learning (RL)
embodied agents. More specifically, we examine how different levels of language
informativeness (i.e., feedback on past behaviors and future guidance) and
diversity (i.e., variation of language expressions) impact agent learning and
inference. Our empirical results based on four RL benchmarks demonstrate that
agents trained with diverse and informative language feedback can achieve
enhanced generalization and fast adaptation to new tasks. These findings
highlight the pivotal role of language use in teaching embodied agents new
tasks in an open world. Project website:
https://github.com/sled-group/Teachable_RL

---

## 15. [Minimum Entropy Coupling with Bottleneck](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.21666)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.21666](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21666)

**Authors**: M. Reza Ebrahimi, Jun Chen, Ashish Khisti

**Published**: 2024-10-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by M.Reza Ebrahimi

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

This paper investigates a novel lossy compression framework operating under
logarithmic loss, designed to handle situations where the reconstruction
distribution diverges from the source distribution. This framework is
especially relevant for applications that require joint compression and
retrieval, and in scenarios involving distributional shifts due to processing.
We show that the proposed formulation extends the classical minimum entropy
coupling framework by integrating a bottleneck, allowing for a controlled
degree of stochasticity in the coupling. We explore the decomposition of the
Minimum Entropy Coupling with Bottleneck (MEC-B) into two distinct optimization
problems: Entropy-Bounded Information Maximization (EBIM) for the encoder, and
Minimum Entropy Coupling (MEC) for the decoder. Through extensive analysis, we
provide a greedy algorithm for EBIM with guaranteed performance, and
characterize the optimal solution near functional mappings, yielding
significant theoretical insights into the structural complexity of this
problem. Furthermore, we illustrate the practical application of MEC-B through
experiments in Markov Coding Games (MCGs) under rate limits. These games
simulate a communication scenario within a Markov Decision Process, where an
agent must transmit a compressed message from a sender to a receiver through
its actions. Our experiments highlight the trade-offs between MDP rewards and
receiver accuracy across various compression rates, showcasing the efficacy of
our method compared to conventional compression baseline.

---

## 16. [GlotCC: An Open Broad-Coverage CommonCrawl Corpus and Pipeline for
  Minority Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.23825)

**ArXiv ID**: [2410.23825](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23825)

**Organization**: CIS, LMU Munich

**Authors**: Amir Hossein Kargaran, François Yvon, Hinrich Schütze

**Published**: 2024-10-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-01 by Amir Hossein Kargaran

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/cisnlp/GlotCC) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/datasets/cis-lmu/GlotCC-v1)

### Abstract

The need for large text corpora has increased with the advent of pretrained
language models and, in particular, the discovery of scaling laws for these
models. Most available corpora have sufficient data only for languages with
large dominant communities. However, there is no corpus available that (i)
covers a wide range of minority languages; (ii) is generated by an open-source
reproducible pipeline; and (iii) is rigorously cleaned from noise, making it
trustworthy to use. We present GlotCC, a clean, document-level, 2TB general
domain corpus derived from CommonCrawl, covering more than 1000 languages. We
make GlotCC and the system used to generate it - including the pipeline,
language identification model, and filters - available to the research
community. Corpus v. 1.0 https://huggingface.co/datasets/cis-lmu/GlotCC-v1,
Pipeline v. 3.0 https://github.com/cisnlp/GlotCC.

---
