# Daily Papers - 2024-11-08

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-11-08)

Total papers: 16

---

## 1. [OpenCoder: The Open Cookbook for Top-Tier Code Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04905)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04905](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04905)

**Authors**: Siming Huang, Tianhao Cheng, Jason Klein Liu, Jiaran Hao, Liuyihan Song, Yang Xu, J. Yang, J. H. Liu, Chenchen Zhang, Linzheng Chai, Ruifeng Yuan, Zhaoxiang Zhang, Jie Fu, Qian Liu, Ge Zhang, Zili Wang, Yuan Qi, Yinghui Xu, Wei Chu

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Ge Zhang

**Upvotes**: 127

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) for code have become indispensable in various
domains, including code generation, reasoning tasks and agent systems.While
open-access code LLMs are increasingly approaching the performance levels of
proprietary models, high-quality code LLMs suitable for rigorous scientific
investigation, particularly those with reproducible data processing pipelines
and transparent training protocols, remain limited. The scarcity is due to
various challenges, including resource constraints, ethical considerations, and
the competitive advantages of keeping models advanced. To address the gap, we
introduce OpenCoder, a top-tier code LLM that not only achieves performance
comparable to leading models but also serves as an ``open cookbook'' for the
research community. Unlike most prior efforts, we release not only model
weights and inference code, but also the reproducible training data, complete
data processing pipeline, rigorous experimental ablation results, and detailed
training protocols for open scientific research. Through this comprehensive
release, we identify the key ingredients for building a top-tier code LLM: (1)
code optimized heuristic rules for data cleaning and methods for data
deduplication, (2) recall of text corpus related to code and (3) high-quality
synthetic data in both annealing and supervised fine-tuning stages. By offering
this level of openness, we aim to broaden access to all aspects of a top-tier
code LLM, with OpenCoder serving as both a powerful model and an open
foundation to accelerate research, and enable reproducible advancements in code
AI.

---

## 2. [BitNet a4.8: 4-bit Activations for 1-bit LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04965)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04965](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04965)

**Authors**: Hongyu Wang, Shuming Ma, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Hongyu Wang

**Upvotes**: 69

### Abstract

Recent research on the 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs), such as BitNet
b1.58, presents a promising direction for reducing the inference cost of LLMs
while maintaining their performance. In this work, we introduce BitNet a4.8,
enabling 4-bit activations for 1-bit LLMs. BitNet a4.8 employs a hybrid
quantization and sparsification strategy to mitigate the quantization errors
introduced by the outlier channels. Specifically, we utilize 4-bit activations
for inputs to the attention and feed-forward network layers, while sparsifying
intermediate states followed with 8-bit quantization. Extensive experiments
demonstrate that BitNet a4.8 achieves performance comparable to BitNet b1.58
with equivalent training costs, while being faster in inference with enabling
4-bit (INT4/FP4) kernels. Additionally, BitNet a4.8 activates only 55% of
parameters and supports 3-bit KV cache, further enhancing the efficiency of
large-scale LLM deployment and inference.

---

## 3. [DimensionX: Create Any 3D and 4D Scenes from a Single Image with
  Controllable Video Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04928)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04928](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04928)

**Authors**: Wenqiang Sun, Shuo Chen, Fangfu Liu, Zilong Chen, Yueqi Duan, Jun Zhang, Yikai Wang

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by wenq

**Upvotes**: 56

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wenqsun/DimensionX)

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce DimensionX, a framework designed to
generate photorealistic 3D and 4D scenes from just a single image with video
diffusion. Our approach begins with the insight that both the spatial structure
of a 3D scene and the temporal evolution of a 4D scene can be effectively
represented through sequences of video frames. While recent video diffusion
models have shown remarkable success in producing vivid visuals, they face
limitations in directly recovering 3D/4D scenes due to limited spatial and
temporal controllability during generation. To overcome this, we propose
ST-Director, which decouples spatial and temporal factors in video diffusion by
learning dimension-aware LoRAs from dimension-variant data. This controllable
video diffusion approach enables precise manipulation of spatial structure and
temporal dynamics, allowing us to reconstruct both 3D and 4D representations
from sequential frames with the combination of spatial and temporal dimensions.
Additionally, to bridge the gap between generated videos and real-world scenes,
we introduce a trajectory-aware mechanism for 3D generation and an
identity-preserving denoising strategy for 4D generation. Extensive experiments
on various real-world and synthetic datasets demonstrate that DimensionX
achieves superior results in controllable video generation, as well as in 3D
and 4D scene generation, compared with previous methods.

---

## 4. [Mixture-of-Transformers: A Sparse and Scalable Architecture for
  Multi-Modal Foundation Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04996)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04996](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04996)

**Authors**: Weixin Liang, Lili Yu, Liang Luo, Srinivasan Iyer, Ning Dong, Chunting Zhou, Gargi Ghosh, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Luke Zettlemoyer, Xi Victoria Lin

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Victoria Lin

**Upvotes**: 50

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/allenzren/open-pi-zero)

### Abstract

The development of large language models (LLMs) has expanded to multi-modal
systems capable of processing text, images, and speech within a unified
framework. Training these models demands significantly larger datasets and
computational resources compared to text-only LLMs. To address the scaling
challenges, we introduce Mixture-of-Transformers (MoT), a sparse multi-modal
transformer architecture that significantly reduces pretraining computational
costs. MoT decouples non-embedding parameters of the model by modality --
including feed-forward networks, attention matrices, and layer normalization --
enabling modality-specific processing with global self-attention over the full
input sequence. We evaluate MoT across multiple settings and model scales. In
the Chameleon 7B setting (autoregressive text-and-image generation), MoT
matches the dense baseline's performance using only 55.8\% of the FLOPs. When
extended to include speech, MoT reaches speech performance comparable to the
dense baseline with only 37.2\% of the FLOPs. In the Transfusion setting, where
text and image are trained with different objectives, a 7B MoT model matches
the image modality performance of the dense baseline with one third of the
FLOPs, and a 760M MoT model outperforms a 1.4B dense baseline across key image
generation metrics. System profiling further highlights MoT's practical
benefits, achieving dense baseline image quality in 47.2\% of the wall-clock
time and text quality in 75.6\% of the wall-clock time (measured on AWS
p4de.24xlarge instances with NVIDIA A100 GPUs).

---

## 5. [M3DocRAG: Multi-modal Retrieval is What You Need for Multi-page
  Multi-document Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04952)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04952](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04952)

**Authors**: Jaemin Cho, Debanjan Mahata, Ozan Irsoy, Yujie He, Mohit Bansal

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Jaemin Cho

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

Document visual question answering (DocVQA) pipelines that answer questions
from documents have broad applications. Existing methods focus on handling
single-page documents with multi-modal language models (MLMs), or rely on
text-based retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) that uses text extraction tools
such as optical character recognition (OCR). However, there are difficulties in
applying these methods in real-world scenarios: (a) questions often require
information across different pages or documents, where MLMs cannot handle many
long documents; (b) documents often have important information in visual
elements such as figures, but text extraction tools ignore them. We introduce
M3DocRAG, a novel multi-modal RAG framework that flexibly accommodates various
document contexts (closed-domain and open-domain), question hops (single-hop
and multi-hop), and evidence modalities (text, chart, figure, etc.). M3DocRAG
finds relevant documents and answers questions using a multi-modal retriever
and an MLM, so that it can efficiently handle single or many documents while
preserving visual information. Since previous DocVQA datasets ask questions in
the context of a specific document, we also present M3DocVQA, a new benchmark
for evaluating open-domain DocVQA over 3,000+ PDF documents with 40,000+ pages.
In three benchmarks (M3DocVQA/MMLongBench-Doc/MP-DocVQA), empirical results
show that M3DocRAG with ColPali and Qwen2-VL 7B achieves superior performance
than many strong baselines, including state-of-the-art performance in
MP-DocVQA. We provide comprehensive analyses of different indexing, MLMs, and
retrieval models. Lastly, we qualitatively show that M3DocRAG can successfully
handle various scenarios, such as when relevant information exists across
multiple pages and when answer evidence only exists in images.

---

## 6. [SVDQunat: Absorbing Outliers by Low-Rank Components for 4-Bit Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.05007)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.05007](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05007)

**Authors**: Muyang Li, Yujun Lin, Zhekai Zhang, Tianle Cai, Xiuyu Li, Junxian Guo, Enze Xie, Chenlin Meng, Jun-Yan Zhu, Song Han

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Muyang Li

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mit-han-lab/nunchaku)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have been proven highly effective at generating high-quality
images. However, as these models grow larger, they require significantly more
memory and suffer from higher latency, posing substantial challenges for
deployment. In this work, we aim to accelerate diffusion models by quantizing
their weights and activations to 4 bits. At such an aggressive level, both
weights and activations are highly sensitive, where conventional post-training
quantization methods for large language models like smoothing become
insufficient. To overcome this limitation, we propose SVDQuant, a new 4-bit
quantization paradigm. Different from smoothing which redistributes outliers
between weights and activations, our approach absorbs these outliers using a
low-rank branch. We first consolidate the outliers by shifting them from
activations to weights, then employ a high-precision low-rank branch to take in
the weight outliers with Singular Value Decomposition (SVD). This process eases
the quantization on both sides. However, na\"{\i}vely running the low-rank
branch independently incurs significant overhead due to extra data movement of
activations, negating the quantization speedup. To address this, we co-design
an inference engine Nunchaku that fuses the kernels of the low-rank branch into
those of the low-bit branch to cut off redundant memory access. It can also
seamlessly support off-the-shelf low-rank adapters (LoRAs) without the need for
re-quantization. Extensive experiments on SDXL, PixArt-Sigma, and FLUX.1
validate the effectiveness of SVDQuant in preserving image quality. We reduce
the memory usage for the 12B FLUX.1 models by 3.5times, achieving
3.0times speedup over the 4-bit weight-only quantized baseline on the 16GB
laptop 4090 GPU, paving the way for more interactive applications on PCs. Our
quantization library and inference engine are open-sourced.

---

## 7. [Analyzing The Language of Visual Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.05001)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.05001](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05001)

**Authors**: David M. Chan, Rodolfo Corona, Joonyong Park, Cheol Jun Cho, Yutong Bai, Trevor Darrell

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by David Chan

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

With the introduction of transformer-based models for vision and language
tasks, such as LLaVA and Chameleon, there has been renewed interest in the
discrete tokenized representation of images. These models often treat image
patches as discrete tokens, analogous to words in natural language, learning
joint alignments between visual and human languages. However, little is known
about the statistical behavior of these visual languages - whether they follow
similar frequency distributions, grammatical structures, or topologies as
natural languages. In this paper, we take a natural-language-centric approach
to analyzing discrete visual languages and uncover striking similarities and
fundamental differences. We demonstrate that, although visual languages adhere
to Zipfian distributions, higher token innovation drives greater entropy and
lower compression, with tokens predominantly representing object parts,
indicating intermediate granularity. We also show that visual languages lack
cohesive grammatical structures, leading to higher perplexity and weaker
hierarchical organization compared to natural languages. Finally, we
demonstrate that, while vision models align more closely with natural languages
than other models, this alignment remains significantly weaker than the
cohesion found within natural languages. Through these experiments, we
demonstrate how understanding the statistical properties of discrete visual
languages can inform the design of more effective computer vision models.

---

## 8. [VideoGLaMM: A Large Multimodal Model for Pixel-Level Visual Grounding in
  Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04923)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04923](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04923)

**Organization**: Mohamed Bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence

**Authors**: Shehan Munasinghe, Hanan Gani, Wenqi Zhu, Jiale Cao, Eric Xing, Fahad Shahbaz Khan, Salman Khan

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Shehan Munasinghe

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/VideoGLaMM) | [Project Page](https://mbzuai-oryx.github.io/VideoGLaMM/)

### Abstract

Fine-grained alignment between videos and text is challenging due to complex
spatial and temporal dynamics in videos. Existing video-based Large Multimodal
Models (LMMs) handle basic conversations but struggle with precise pixel-level
grounding in videos. To address this, we introduce VideoGLaMM, a LMM designed
for fine-grained pixel-level grounding in videos based on user-provided textual
inputs. Our design seamlessly connects three key components: a Large Language
Model, a dual vision encoder that emphasizes both spatial and temporal details,
and a spatio-temporal decoder for accurate mask generation. This connection is
facilitated via tunable V-L and L-V adapters that enable close Vision-Language
(VL) alignment. The architecture is trained to synchronize both spatial and
temporal elements of video content with textual instructions. To enable
fine-grained grounding, we curate a multimodal dataset featuring detailed
visually-grounded conversations using a semiautomatic annotation pipeline,
resulting in a diverse set of 38k video-QA triplets along with 83k objects and
671k masks. We evaluate VideoGLaMM on three challenging tasks: Grounded
Conversation Generation, Visual Grounding, and Referring Video Segmentation.
Experimental results show that our model consistently outperforms existing
approaches across all three tasks.

---

## 9. [Needle Threading: Can LLMs Follow Threads through Near-Million-Scale
  Haystacks?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.05000)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.05000](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05000)

**Authors**: Jonathan Roberts, Kai Han, Samuel Albanie

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Jonathan Roberts

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

As the context limits of Large Language Models (LLMs) increase, the range of
possible applications and downstream functions broadens. In many real-world
tasks, decisions depend on details scattered across collections of often
disparate documents containing mostly irrelevant information. Long-context LLMs
appear well-suited to this form of complex information retrieval and reasoning,
which has traditionally proven costly and time-consuming. However, although the
development of longer context models has seen rapid gains in recent years, our
understanding of how effectively LLMs use their context has not kept pace. To
address this, we conduct a set of retrieval experiments designed to evaluate
the capabilities of 17 leading LLMs, such as their ability to follow threads of
information through the context window. Strikingly, we find that many models
are remarkably threadsafe: capable of simultaneously following multiple threads
without significant loss in performance. Still, for many models, we find the
effective context limit is significantly shorter than the supported context
length, with accuracy decreasing as the context window grows. Our study also
highlights the important point that token counts from different tokenizers
should not be directly compared -- they often correspond to substantially
different numbers of written characters. We release our code and long-context
experimental data.

---

## 10. [Thanos: Enhancing Conversational Agents with Skill-of-Mind-Infused Large
  Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04496)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04496](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04496)

**Authors**: Young-Jun Lee, Dokyong Lee, Junyoung Youn, Kyeongjin Oh, Ho-Jin Choi

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Young-Jun Lee

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/passing2961/thanos)

### Abstract

To increase social bonding with interlocutors, humans naturally acquire the
ability to respond appropriately in a given situation by considering which
conversational skill is most suitable for the response - a process we call
skill-of-mind. For large language model (LLM)-based conversational agents,
planning appropriate conversational skills, as humans do, is challenging due to
the complexity of social dialogue, especially in interactive scenarios. To
address this, we propose a skill-of-mind-annotated conversation dataset, named
Multifaceted Skill-of-Mind, which includes multi-turn and multifaceted
conversational skills across various interactive scenarios (e.g., long-term,
counseling, task-oriented), grounded in diverse social contexts (e.g.,
demographics, persona, rules of thumb). This dataset consists of roughly 100K
conversations. Using this dataset, we introduce a new family of
skill-of-mind-infused LLMs, named Thanos, with model sizes of 1B, 3B, and 8B
parameters. With extensive experiments, these models successfully demonstrate
the skill-of-mind process and exhibit strong generalizability in inferring
multifaceted skills across a variety of domains. Moreover, we show that Thanos
significantly enhances the quality of responses generated by LLM-based
conversational agents and promotes prosocial behavior in human evaluations.

---

## 11. [DynaMem: Online Dynamic Spatio-Semantic Memory for Open World Mobile
  Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04999)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04999](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04999)

**Authors**: Peiqi Liu, Zhanqiu Guo, Mohit Warke, Soumith Chintala, Chris Paxton, Nur Muhammad Mahi Shafiullah, Lerrel Pinto

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Mahi Shafiullah

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hello-robot/stretch_ai)

### Abstract

Significant progress has been made in open-vocabulary mobile manipulation,
where the goal is for a robot to perform tasks in any environment given a
natural language description. However, most current systems assume a static
environment, which limits the system's applicability in real-world scenarios
where environments frequently change due to human intervention or the robot's
own actions. In this work, we present DynaMem, a new approach to open-world
mobile manipulation that uses a dynamic spatio-semantic memory to represent a
robot's environment. DynaMem constructs a 3D data structure to maintain a
dynamic memory of point clouds, and answers open-vocabulary object localization
queries using multimodal LLMs or open-vocabulary features generated by
state-of-the-art vision-language models. Powered by DynaMem, our robots can
explore novel environments, search for objects not found in memory, and
continuously update the memory as objects move, appear, or disappear in the
scene. We run extensive experiments on the Stretch SE3 robots in three real and
nine offline scenes, and achieve an average pick-and-drop success rate of 70%
on non-stationary objects, which is more than a 2x improvement over
state-of-the-art static systems. Our code as well as our experiment and
deployment videos are open sourced and can be found on our project website:
https://dynamem.github.io/

---

## 12. [RetrieveGPT: Merging Prompts and Mathematical Models for Enhanced
  Code-Mixed Information Retrieval](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04752)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04752](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04752)

**Authors**: Aniket Deroy, Subhankar Maity

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Hao Fei

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Code-mixing, the integration of lexical and grammatical elements from
multiple languages within a single sentence, is a widespread linguistic
phenomenon, particularly prevalent in multilingual societies. In India, social
media users frequently engage in code-mixed conversations using the Roman
script, especially among migrant communities who form online groups to share
relevant local information. This paper focuses on the challenges of extracting
relevant information from code-mixed conversations, specifically within Roman
transliterated Bengali mixed with English. This study presents a novel approach
to address these challenges by developing a mechanism to automatically identify
the most relevant answers from code-mixed conversations. We have experimented
with a dataset comprising of queries and documents from Facebook, and Query
Relevance files (QRels) to aid in this task. Our results demonstrate the
effectiveness of our approach in extracting pertinent information from complex,
code-mixed digital conversations, contributing to the broader field of natural
language processing in multilingual and informal text environments. We use
GPT-3.5 Turbo via prompting alongwith using the sequential nature of relevant
documents to frame a mathematical model which helps to detect relevant
documents corresponding to a query.

---

## 13. [M3SciQA: A Multi-Modal Multi-Document Scientific QA Benchmark for
  Evaluating Foundation Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04075)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04075](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04075)

**Authors**: Chuhan Li, Ziyao Shangguan, Yilun Zhao, Deyuan Li, Yixin Liu, Arman Cohan

**Published**: 2024-11-06 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Chuhan Li

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Existing benchmarks for evaluating foundation models mainly focus on
single-document, text-only tasks. However, they often fail to fully capture the
complexity of research workflows, which typically involve interpreting
non-textual data and gathering information across multiple documents. To
address this gap, we introduce M3SciQA, a multi-modal, multi-document
scientific question answering benchmark designed for a more comprehensive
evaluation of foundation models. M3SciQA consists of 1,452 expert-annotated
questions spanning 70 natural language processing paper clusters, where each
cluster represents a primary paper along with all its cited documents,
mirroring the workflow of comprehending a single paper by requiring multi-modal
and multi-document data. With M3SciQA, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of
18 foundation models. Our results indicate that current foundation models still
significantly underperform compared to human experts in multi-modal information
retrieval and in reasoning across multiple scientific documents. Additionally,
we explore the implications of these findings for the future advancement of
applying foundation models in multi-modal scientific literature analysis.

---

## 14. [GazeGen: Gaze-Driven User Interaction for Visual Content Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04335)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04335](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04335)

**Authors**: He-Yen Hsieh, Ziyun Li, Sai Qian Zhang, Wei-Te Mark Ting, Kao-Den Chang, Barbara De Salvo, Chiao Liu, H. T. Kung

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Hsieh

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

We present GazeGen, a user interaction system that generates visual content
(images and videos) for locations indicated by the user's eye gaze. GazeGen
allows intuitive manipulation of visual content by targeting regions of
interest with gaze. Using advanced techniques in object detection and
generative AI, GazeGen performs gaze-controlled image adding/deleting,
repositioning, and surface material changes of image objects, and converts
static images into videos. Central to GazeGen is the DFT Gaze (Distilled and
Fine-Tuned Gaze) agent, an ultra-lightweight model with only 281K parameters,
performing accurate real-time gaze predictions tailored to individual users'
eyes on small edge devices. GazeGen is the first system to combine visual
content generation with real-time gaze estimation, made possible exclusively by
DFT Gaze. This real-time gaze estimation enables various visual content
generation tasks, all controlled by the user's gaze. The input for DFT Gaze is
the user's eye images, while the inputs for visual content generation are the
user's view and the predicted gaze point from DFT Gaze. To achieve efficient
gaze predictions, we derive the small model from a large model (10x larger) via
novel knowledge distillation and personal adaptation techniques. We integrate
knowledge distillation with a masked autoencoder, developing a compact yet
powerful gaze estimation model. This model is further fine-tuned with Adapters,
enabling highly accurate and personalized gaze predictions with minimal user
input. DFT Gaze ensures low-latency and precise gaze tracking, supporting a
wide range of gaze-driven tasks. We validate the performance of DFT Gaze on AEA
and OpenEDS2020 benchmarks, demonstrating low angular gaze error and low
latency on the edge device (Raspberry Pi 4). Furthermore, we describe
applications of GazeGen, illustrating its versatility and effectiveness in
various usage scenarios.

---

## 15. [SG-I2V: Self-Guided Trajectory Control in Image-to-Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.04989)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.04989](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04989)

**Authors**: Koichi Namekata, Sherwin Bahmani, Ziyi Wu, Yash Kant, Igor Gilitschenski, David B. Lindell

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Koichi Namekata

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Kmcode1/SG-I2V) | [Project Page](https://kmcode1.github.io/Projects/SG-I2V)

### Abstract

Methods for image-to-video generation have achieved impressive,
photo-realistic quality. However, adjusting specific elements in generated
videos, such as object motion or camera movement, is often a tedious process of
trial and error, e.g., involving re-generating videos with different random
seeds. Recent techniques address this issue by fine-tuning a pre-trained model
to follow conditioning signals, such as bounding boxes or point trajectories.
Yet, this fine-tuning procedure can be computationally expensive, and it
requires datasets with annotated object motion, which can be difficult to
procure. In this work, we introduce SG-I2V, a framework for controllable
image-to-video generation that is self-guidedx2013offering
zero-shot control by relying solely on the knowledge present in a pre-trained
image-to-video diffusion model without the need for fine-tuning or external
knowledge. Our zero-shot method outperforms unsupervised baselines while being
competitive with supervised models in terms of visual quality and motion
fidelity.

---

## 16. [Diff-2-in-1: Bridging Generation and Dense Perception with Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.05005)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.05005](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05005)

**Authors**: Shuhong Zheng, Zhipeng Bao, Ruoyu Zhao, Martial Hebert, Yu-Xiong Wang

**Published**: 2024-11-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-08 by Shuhong Zheng

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Beyond high-fidelity image synthesis, diffusion models have recently
exhibited promising results in dense visual perception tasks. However, most
existing work treats diffusion models as a standalone component for perception
tasks, employing them either solely for off-the-shelf data augmentation or as
mere feature extractors. In contrast to these isolated and thus sub-optimal
efforts, we introduce a unified, versatile, diffusion-based framework,
Diff-2-in-1, that can simultaneously handle both multi-modal data generation
and dense visual perception, through a unique exploitation of the
diffusion-denoising process. Within this framework, we further enhance
discriminative visual perception via multi-modal generation, by utilizing the
denoising network to create multi-modal data that mirror the distribution of
the original training set. Importantly, Diff-2-in-1 optimizes the utilization
of the created diverse and faithful data by leveraging a novel self-improving
learning mechanism. Comprehensive experimental evaluations validate the
effectiveness of our framework, showcasing consistent performance improvements
across various discriminative backbones and high-quality multi-modal data
generation characterized by both realism and usefulness.

---
