# Daily Papers - 2024-11-22

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-11-22)

Total papers: 14

---

## 1. [Enhancing the Reasoning Ability of Multimodal Large Language Models via
  Mixed Preference Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.10442)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.10442](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10442)

**Authors**: Weiyun Wang, Zhe Chen, Wenhai Wang, Yue Cao, Yangzhou Liu, Zhangwei Gao, Jinguo Zhu, Xizhou Zhu, Lewei Lu, Yu Qiao, Jifeng Dai

**Published**: 2024-11-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Weiyun Wang

**Upvotes**: 87

### Abstract

Existing open-source multimodal large language models (MLLMs) generally
follow a training process involving pre-training and supervised fine-tuning.
However, these models suffer from distribution shifts, which limit their
multimodal reasoning, particularly in the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) performance.
To address this, we introduce a preference optimization (PO) process to enhance
the multimodal reasoning capabilities of MLLMs. Specifically, (1) on the data
side, we design an automated preference data construction pipeline to create
MMPR, a high-quality, large-scale multimodal reasoning preference dataset. and
(2) on the model side, we explore integrating PO with MLLMs, developing a
simple yet effective method, termed Mixed Preference Optimization (MPO), which
boosts multimodal CoT performance. Our approach demonstrates improved
performance across multiple benchmarks, particularly in multimodal reasoning
tasks. Notably, our model, InternVL2-8B-MPO, achieves an accuracy of 67.0 on
MathVista, outperforming InternVL2-8B by 8.7 points and achieving performance
comparable to the 10x larger InternVL2-76B. We hope this study could inspire
further advancements in MLLMs. Code, data, and model shall be publicly
released.

---

## 2. [Marco-o1: Towards Open Reasoning Models for Open-Ended Solutions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.14405)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.14405](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14405)

**Authors**: Yu Zhao, Huifeng Yin, Bo Zeng, Hao Wang, Tianqi Shi, Chenyang Lyu, Longyue Wang, Weihua Luo, Kaifu Zhang

**Published**: 2024-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by AK

**Upvotes**: 61

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aidc-ai/marco-o1)

### Abstract

Currently OpenAI o1 has sparked a surge of interest in the study of large
reasoning models (LRM). Building on this momentum, Marco-o1 not only focuses on
disciplines with standard answers, such as mathematics, physics, and coding --
which are well-suited for reinforcement learning (RL) -- but also places
greater emphasis on open-ended resolutions. We aim to address the question:
"Can the o1 model effectively generalize to broader domains where clear
standards are absent and rewards are challenging to quantify?" Marco-o1 is
powered by Chain-of-Thought (CoT) fine-tuning, Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS),
reflection mechanisms, and innovative reasoning strategies -- optimized for
complex real-world problem-solving tasks.

---

## 3. [Multimodal Autoregressive Pre-training of Large Vision Encoders](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.14402)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.14402](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14402)

**Authors**: Enrico Fini, Mustafa Shukor, Xiujun Li, Philipp Dufter, Michal Klein, David Haldimann, Sai Aitharaju, Victor Guilherme Turrisi da Costa, Louis Béthune, Zhe Gan, Alexander T Toshev, Marcin Eichner, Moin Nabi, Yinfei Yang, Joshua M. Susskind, Alaaeldin El-Nouby

**Published**: 2024-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Enrico Fini

**Upvotes**: 47

### Abstract

We introduce a novel method for pre-training of large-scale vision encoders.
Building on recent advancements in autoregressive pre-training of vision
models, we extend this framework to a multimodal setting, i.e., images and
text. In this paper, we present AIMV2, a family of generalist vision encoders
characterized by a straightforward pre-training process, scalability, and
remarkable performance across a range of downstream tasks. This is achieved by
pairing the vision encoder with a multimodal decoder that autoregressively
generates raw image patches and text tokens. Our encoders excel not only in
multimodal evaluations but also in vision benchmarks such as localization,
grounding, and classification. Notably, our AIMV2-3B encoder achieves 89.5%
accuracy on ImageNet-1k with a frozen trunk. Furthermore, AIMV2 consistently
outperforms state-of-the-art contrastive models (e.g., CLIP, SigLIP) in
multimodal image understanding across diverse settings.

---

## 4. [Hymba: A Hybrid-head Architecture for Small Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.13676)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.13676](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13676)

**Organization**: NVIDIA

**Authors**: Xin Dong, Yonggan Fu, Shizhe Diao, Wonmin Byeon, Zijia Chen, Ameya Sunil Mahabaleshwarkar, Shih-Yang Liu, Matthijs Van Keirsbilck, Min-Hung Chen, Yoshi Suhara, Yingyan Lin, Jan Kautz, Pavlo Molchanov

**Published**: 2024-11-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Pavlo Molchanov

**Upvotes**: 47

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NVlabs/hymba)

### Abstract

We propose Hymba, a family of small language models featuring a hybrid-head
parallel architecture that integrates transformer attention mechanisms with
state space models (SSMs) for enhanced efficiency. Attention heads provide
high-resolution recall, while SSM heads enable efficient context summarization.
Additionally, we introduce learnable meta tokens that are prepended to prompts,
storing critical information and alleviating the "forced-to-attend" burden
associated with attention mechanisms. This model is further optimized by
incorporating cross-layer key-value (KV) sharing and partial sliding window
attention, resulting in a compact cache size. During development, we conducted
a controlled study comparing various architectures under identical settings and
observed significant advantages of our proposed architecture. Notably, Hymba
achieves state-of-the-art results for small LMs: Our Hymba-1.5B-Base model
surpasses all sub-2B public models in performance and even outperforms
Llama-3.2-3B with 1.32% higher average accuracy, an 11.67x cache size
reduction, and 3.49x throughput.

---

## 5. [OpenScholar: Synthesizing Scientific Literature with Retrieval-augmented
  LMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.14199)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.14199](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14199)

**Authors**: Akari Asai, Jacqueline He, Rulin Shao, Weijia Shi, Amanpreet Singh, Joseph Chee Chang, Kyle Lo, Luca Soldaini, Sergey Feldman, Mike D'arcy, David Wadden, Matt Latzke, Minyang Tian, Pan Ji, Shengyan Liu, Hao Tong, Bohao Wu, Yanyu Xiong, Luke Zettlemoyer, Graham Neubig, Dan Weld, Doug Downey, Wen-tau Yih, Pang Wei Koh, Hannaneh Hajishirzi

**Published**: 2024-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Akari Asai

**Upvotes**: 34

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/akariasai/openscholar_experteval)

### Abstract

Scientific progress depends on researchers' ability to synthesize the growing
body of literature. Can large language models (LMs) assist scientists in this
task? We introduce OpenScholar, a specialized retrieval-augmented LM that
answers scientific queries by identifying relevant passages from 45 million
open-access papers and synthesizing citation-backed responses. To evaluate
OpenScholar, we develop ScholarQABench, the first large-scale multi-domain
benchmark for literature search, comprising 2,967 expert-written queries and
208 long-form answers across computer science, physics, neuroscience, and
biomedicine. On ScholarQABench, OpenScholar-8B outperforms GPT-4o by 5% and
PaperQA2 by 7% in correctness, despite being a smaller, open model. While GPT4o
hallucinates citations 78 to 90% of the time, OpenScholar achieves citation
accuracy on par with human experts. OpenScholar's datastore, retriever, and
self-feedback inference loop also improves off-the-shelf LMs: for instance,
OpenScholar-GPT4o improves GPT-4o's correctness by 12%. In human evaluations,
experts preferred OpenScholar-8B and OpenScholar-GPT4o responses over
expert-written ones 51% and 70% of the time, respectively, compared to GPT4o's
32%. We open-source all of our code, models, datastore, data and a public demo.

---

## 6. [Insight-V: Exploring Long-Chain Visual Reasoning with Multimodal Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.14432)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.14432](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14432)

**Authors**: Yuhao Dong, Zuyan Liu, Hai-Long Sun, Jingkang Yang, Yongming Rao, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2024-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Yuhao Dong

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dongyh20/insight-v)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate enhanced capabilities and
reliability by reasoning more, evolving from Chain-of-Thought prompting to
product-level solutions like OpenAI o1. Despite various efforts to improve LLM
reasoning, high-quality long-chain reasoning data and optimized training
pipelines still remain inadequately explored in vision-language tasks. In this
paper, we present Insight-V, an early effort to 1) scalably produce long and
robust reasoning data for complex multi-modal tasks, and 2) an effective
training pipeline to enhance the reasoning capabilities of multi-modal large
language models (MLLMs). Specifically, to create long and structured reasoning
data without human labor, we design a two-step pipeline with a progressive
strategy to generate sufficiently long and diverse reasoning paths and a
multi-granularity assessment method to ensure data quality. We observe that
directly supervising MLLMs with such long and complex reasoning data will not
yield ideal reasoning ability. To tackle this problem, we design a multi-agent
system consisting of a reasoning agent dedicated to performing long-chain
reasoning and a summary agent trained to judge and summarize reasoning results.
We further incorporate an iterative DPO algorithm to enhance the reasoning
agent's generation stability and quality. Based on the popular LLaVA-NeXT model
and our stronger base MLLM, we demonstrate significant performance gains across
challenging multi-modal benchmarks requiring visual reasoning. Benefiting from
our multi-agent system, Insight-V can also easily maintain or improve
performance on perception-focused multi-modal tasks.

---

## 7. [Ultra-Sparse Memory Network](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.12364)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.12364](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12364)

**Authors**: Zihao Huang, Qiyang Min, Hongzhi Huang, Defa Zhu, Yutao Zeng, Ran Guo, Xun Zhou

**Published**: 2024-11-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Huang Zihao

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

It is widely acknowledged that the performance of Transformer models is
exponentially related to their number of parameters and computational
complexity. While approaches like Mixture of Experts (MoE) decouple parameter
count from computational complexity, they still face challenges in inference
due to high memory access costs. This work introduces UltraMem, incorporating
large-scale, ultra-sparse memory layer to address these limitations. Our
approach significantly reduces inference latency while maintaining model
performance. We also investigate the scaling laws of this new architecture,
demonstrating that it not only exhibits favorable scaling properties but
outperforms traditional models. In our experiments, we train networks with up
to 20 million memory slots. The results show that our method achieves
state-of-the-art inference speed and model performance within a given
computational budget.

---

## 8. [Stable Flow: Vital Layers for Training-Free Image Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.14430)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.14430](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14430)

**Authors**: Omri Avrahami, Or Patashnik, Ohad Fried, Egor Nemchinov, Kfir Aberman, Dani Lischinski, Daniel Cohen-Or

**Published**: 2024-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Omri Avrahami

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/snap-research/stable-flow) | [Project Page](https://omriavrahami.com/stable-flow/)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have revolutionized the field of content synthesis and
editing. Recent models have replaced the traditional UNet architecture with the
Diffusion Transformer (DiT), and employed flow-matching for improved training
and sampling. However, they exhibit limited generation diversity. In this work,
we leverage this limitation to perform consistent image edits via selective
injection of attention features. The main challenge is that, unlike the
UNet-based models, DiT lacks a coarse-to-fine synthesis structure, making it
unclear in which layers to perform the injection. Therefore, we propose an
automatic method to identify "vital layers" within DiT, crucial for image
formation, and demonstrate how these layers facilitate a range of controlled
stable edits, from non-rigid modifications to object addition, using the same
mechanism. Next, to enable real-image editing, we introduce an improved image
inversion method for flow models. Finally, we evaluate our approach through
qualitative and quantitative comparisons, along with a user study, and
demonstrate its effectiveness across multiple applications. The project page is
available at https://omriavrahami.com/stable-flow

---

## 9. [DINO-X: A Unified Vision Model for Open-World Object Detection and
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.14347)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.14347](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14347)

**Authors**: Tianhe Ren, Yihao Chen, Qing Jiang, Zhaoyang Zeng, Yuda Xiong, Wenlong Liu, Zhengyu Ma, Junyi Shen, Yuan Gao, Xiaoke Jiang, Xingyu Chen, Zhuheng Song, Yuhong Zhang, Hongjie Huang, Han Gao, Shilong Liu, Hao Zhang, Feng Li, Kent Yu, Lei Zhang

**Published**: 2024-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Ling-Hao Chen

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/idea-research/dino-x-api)

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce DINO-X, which is a unified object-centric vision
model developed by IDEA Research with the best open-world object detection
performance to date. DINO-X employs the same Transformer-based encoder-decoder
architecture as Grounding DINO 1.5 to pursue an object-level representation for
open-world object understanding. To make long-tailed object detection easy,
DINO-X extends its input options to support text prompt, visual prompt, and
customized prompt. With such flexible prompt options, we develop a universal
object prompt to support prompt-free open-world detection, making it possible
to detect anything in an image without requiring users to provide any prompt.
To enhance the model's core grounding capability, we have constructed a
large-scale dataset with over 100 million high-quality grounding samples,
referred to as Grounding-100M, for advancing the model's open-vocabulary
detection performance. Pre-training on such a large-scale grounding dataset
leads to a foundational object-level representation, which enables DINO-X to
integrate multiple perception heads to simultaneously support multiple object
perception and understanding tasks, including detection, segmentation, pose
estimation, object captioning, object-based QA, etc. Experimental results
demonstrate the superior performance of DINO-X. Specifically, the DINO-X Pro
model achieves 56.0 AP, 59.8 AP, and 52.4 AP on the COCO, LVIS-minival, and
LVIS-val zero-shot object detection benchmarks, respectively. Notably, it
scores 63.3 AP and 56.5 AP on the rare classes of LVIS-minival and LVIS-val
benchmarks, both improving the previous SOTA performance by 5.8 AP. Such a
result underscores its significantly improved capacity for recognizing
long-tailed objects.

---

## 10. [Do I Know This Entity? Knowledge Awareness and Hallucinations in
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.14257)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.14257](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14257)

**Authors**: Javier Ferrando, Oscar Obeso, Senthooran Rajamanoharan, Neel Nanda

**Published**: 2024-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Gabriele Sarti

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Hallucinations in large language models are a widespread problem, yet the
mechanisms behind whether models will hallucinate are poorly understood,
limiting our ability to solve this problem. Using sparse autoencoders as an
interpretability tool, we discover that a key part of these mechanisms is
entity recognition, where the model detects if an entity is one it can recall
facts about. Sparse autoencoders uncover meaningful directions in the
representation space, these detect whether the model recognizes an entity, e.g.
detecting it doesn't know about an athlete or a movie. This suggests that
models can have self-knowledge: internal representations about their own
capabilities. These directions are causally relevant: capable of steering the
model to refuse to answer questions about known entities, or to hallucinate
attributes of unknown entities when it would otherwise refuse. We demonstrate
that despite the sparse autoencoders being trained on the base model, these
directions have a causal effect on the chat model's refusal behavior,
suggesting that chat finetuning has repurposed this existing mechanism.
Furthermore, we provide an initial exploration into the mechanistic role of
these directions in the model, finding that they disrupt the attention of
downstream heads that typically move entity attributes to the final token.

---

## 11. [MagicDriveDiT: High-Resolution Long Video Generation for Autonomous
  Driving with Adaptive Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.13807)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.13807](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13807)

**Authors**: Ruiyuan Gao, Kai Chen, Bo Xiao, Lanqing Hong, Zhenguo Li, Qiang Xu

**Published**: 2024-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Ruiyuan Gao

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

The rapid advancement of diffusion models has greatly improved video
synthesis, especially in controllable video generation, which is essential for
applications like autonomous driving. However, existing methods are limited by
scalability and how control conditions are integrated, failing to meet the
needs for high-resolution and long videos for autonomous driving applications.
In this paper, we introduce MagicDriveDiT, a novel approach based on the DiT
architecture, and tackle these challenges. Our method enhances scalability
through flow matching and employs a progressive training strategy to manage
complex scenarios. By incorporating spatial-temporal conditional encoding,
MagicDriveDiT achieves precise control over spatial-temporal latents.
Comprehensive experiments show its superior performance in generating realistic
street scene videos with higher resolution and more frames. MagicDriveDiT
significantly improves video generation quality and spatial-temporal controls,
expanding its potential applications across various tasks in autonomous
driving.

---

## 12. [Baking Gaussian Splatting into Diffusion Denoiser for Fast and Scalable
  Single-stage Image-to-3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.14384)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.14384](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14384)

**Authors**: Yuanhao Cai, He Zhang, Kai Zhang, Yixun Liang, Mengwei Ren, Fujun Luan, Qing Liu, Soo Ye Kim, Jianming Zhang, Zhifei Zhang, Yuqian Zhou, Zhe Lin, Alan Yuille

**Published**: 2024-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by yixunliang

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/caiyuanhao1998/Open-DiffusionGS) | [Project Page](https://caiyuanhao1998.github.io/project/DiffusionGS/)

### Abstract

Existing feed-forward image-to-3D methods mainly rely on 2D multi-view
diffusion models that cannot guarantee 3D consistency. These methods easily
collapse when changing the prompt view direction and mainly handle
object-centric prompt images. In this paper, we propose a novel single-stage 3D
diffusion model, DiffusionGS, for object and scene generation from a single
view. DiffusionGS directly outputs 3D Gaussian point clouds at each timestep to
enforce view consistency and allow the model to generate robustly given prompt
views of any directions, beyond object-centric inputs. Plus, to improve the
capability and generalization ability of DiffusionGS, we scale up 3D training
data by developing a scene-object mixed training strategy. Experiments show
that our method enjoys better generation quality (2.20 dB higher in PSNR and
23.25 lower in FID) and over 5x faster speed (~6s on an A100 GPU) than SOTA
methods. The user study and text-to-3D applications also reveals the practical
values of our method. Our Project page at
https://caiyuanhao1998.github.io/project/DiffusionGS/ shows the video and
interactive generation results.

---

## 13. [UnifiedCrawl: Aggregated Common Crawl for Affordable Adaptation of LLMs
  on Low-Resource Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.14343)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.14343](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14343)

**Authors**: Bethel Melesse Tessema, Akhil Kedia, Tae-Sun Chung

**Published**: 2024-11-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bethelmelesse/unifiedcrawl)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) under-perform on low-resource languages due to
limited training data. We present a method to efficiently collect text data for
low-resource languages from the entire Common Crawl corpus. Our approach,
UnifiedCrawl, filters and extracts common crawl using minimal compute
resources, yielding mono-lingual datasets much larger than previously available
sources. We demonstrate that leveraging this data to fine-tuning multilingual
LLMs via efficient adapter methods (QLoRA) significantly boosts performance on
the low-resource language, while minimizing VRAM usage. Our experiments show
large improvements in language modeling perplexity and an increase in few-shot
prompting scores. Our work and released source code provide an affordable
approach to improve LLMs for low-resource languages using consumer hardware.
Our source code is available here at
https://github.com/bethelmelesse/unifiedcrawl.

---

## 14. [Patience Is The Key to Large Language Model Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2411.13082)

**ArXiv ID**: [2411.13082](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13082)

**Authors**: Yijiong Yu

**Published**: 2024-11-20 | **Submitted**: 2024-11-22 by yuyijiong

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Recent advancements in the field of large language models, particularly
through the Chain of Thought (CoT) approach, have demonstrated significant
improvements in solving complex problems. However, existing models either tend
to sacrifice detailed reasoning for brevity due to user preferences, or require
extensive and expensive training data to learn complicated reasoning ability,
limiting their potential in solving complex tasks. To bridge this gap,
following the concept of scaling test-time, we propose a simple method by
encouraging models to adopt a more patient reasoning style without the need of
introducing new knowledge or skills. To employ a preference optimization
approach, we generate detailed reasoning processes as positive examples and
simple answers as negative examples, thereby training the model to favor
thoroughness in its responses. Our results demonstrate a performance increase
of up to 6.7% on GSM8k with training just on a lightweight dataset.

---
