# Daily Papers - 2024-01-09

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-09)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [Mixtral of Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04088)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04088](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04088)

**Authors**: Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Antoine Roux, Arthur Mensch, Blanche Savary, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Emma Bou Hanna, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Bour, Guillaume Lample, Lélio Renard Lavaud, Lucile Saulnier, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Sandeep Subramanian, Sophia Yang, Szymon Antoniak, Teven Le Scao, Théophile Gervet, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix, William El Sayed

**Published**: 2024-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 160

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pwc-1/Paper-9)

### Abstract

We introduce Mixtral 8x7B, a Sparse Mixture of Experts (SMoE) language model.
Mixtral has the same architecture as Mistral 7B, with the difference that each
layer is composed of 8 feedforward blocks (i.e. experts). For every token, at
each layer, a router network selects two experts to process the current state
and combine their outputs. Even though each token only sees two experts, the
selected experts can be different at each timestep. As a result, each token has
access to 47B parameters, but only uses 13B active parameters during inference.
Mixtral was trained with a context size of 32k tokens and it outperforms or
matches Llama 2 70B and GPT-3.5 across all evaluated benchmarks. In particular,
Mixtral vastly outperforms Llama 2 70B on mathematics, code generation, and
multilingual benchmarks. We also provide a model fine-tuned to follow
instructions, Mixtral 8x7B - Instruct, that surpasses GPT-3.5 Turbo,
Claude-2.1, Gemini Pro, and Llama 2 70B - chat model on human benchmarks. Both
the base and instruct models are released under the Apache 2.0 license.

---

## 2. [MoE-Mamba: Efficient Selective State Space Models with Mixture of
  Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04081)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04081](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04081)

**Authors**: Maciej Pióro, Kamil Ciebiera, Krystian Król, Jan Ludziejewski, Sebastian Jaszczur

**Published**: 2024-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 74

### Abstract

State Space Models (SSMs) have become serious contenders in the field of
sequential modeling, challenging the dominance of Transformers. At the same
time, Mixture of Experts (MoE) has significantly improved Transformer-based
LLMs, including recent state-of-the-art open-source models. We propose that to
unlock the potential of SSMs for scaling, they should be combined with MoE. We
showcase this on Mamba, a recent SSM-based model that achieves remarkable,
Transformer-like performance. Our model, MoE-Mamba, outperforms both Mamba and
Transformer-MoE. In particular, MoE-Mamba reaches the same performance as Mamba
in 2.2x less training steps while preserving the inference performance gains of
Mamba against the Transformer.

---

## 3. [Blending Is All You Need: Cheaper, Better Alternative to
  Trillion-Parameters LLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.02994)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.02994](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02994)

**Authors**: Xiaoding Lu, Adian Liusie, Vyas Raina, Yuwen Zhang, William Beauchamp

**Published**: 2024-01-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 52

### Abstract

In conversational AI research, there's a noticeable trend towards developing
models with a larger number of parameters, exemplified by models like ChatGPT.
While these expansive models tend to generate increasingly better chat
responses, they demand significant computational resources and memory. This
study explores a pertinent question: Can a combination of smaller models
collaboratively achieve comparable or enhanced performance relative to a
singular large model? We introduce an approach termed "blending", a
straightforward yet effective method of integrating multiple chat AIs. Our
empirical evidence suggests that when specific smaller models are
synergistically blended, they can potentially outperform or match the
capabilities of much larger counterparts. For instance, integrating just three
models of moderate size (6B/13B paramaeters) can rival or even surpass the
performance metrics of a substantially larger model like ChatGPT (175B+
paramaters). This hypothesis is rigorously tested using A/B testing
methodologies with a large user base on the Chai research platform over a span
of thirty days. The findings underscore the potential of the "blending"
strategy as a viable approach for enhancing chat AI efficacy without a
corresponding surge in computational demands.

---

## 4. [Soaring from 4K to 400K: Extending LLM's Context with Activation Beacon](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.03462)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.03462](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.03462)

**Authors**: Peitian Zhang, Zheng Liu, Shitao Xiao, Ninglu Shao, Qiwei Ye, Zhicheng Dou

**Published**: 2024-01-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

The utilization of long contexts poses a big challenge for large language
models due to their limited context window length. Although the context window
can be extended through fine-tuning, it will result in a considerable cost at
both training and inference time, and exert an unfavorable impact to the LLM's
original capabilities. In this work, we propose Activation Beacon, which
condenses LLM's raw activations into more compact forms such that it can
perceive a much longer context with a limited context window. Activation Beacon
is introduced as a plug-and-play module for the LLM. It fully preserves the
LLM's original capability on short contexts while extending the new capability
on processing longer contexts. Besides, it works with short sliding windows to
process the long context, which achieves a competitive memory and time
efficiency in both training and inference. Activation Beacon is learned by the
auto-regression task conditioned on a mixture of beacons with diversified
condensing ratios. Thanks to such a treatment, it can be efficiently trained
purely with short-sequence data in just 10K steps, which consumes less than 9
hours on a single 8xA800 GPU machine. The experimental studies show that
Activation Beacon is able to extend Llama-2-7B's context length by times100
times (from 4K to 400K), meanwhile achieving a superior result on both
long-context generation and understanding tasks. Our model and code will be
available at the BGE repository.

---

## 5. [GPT-4V(ision) is a Human-Aligned Evaluator for Text-to-3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04092)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04092](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04092)

**Authors**: Tong Wu, Guandao Yang, Zhibing Li, Ziwei Liu, Leonidas Guibas, Dahua Lin, Gordon Wetzstein

**Published**: 2024-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/3DTopia/GPTEval3D)

### Abstract

Despite recent advances in text-to-3D generative methods, there is a notable
absence of reliable evaluation metrics. Existing metrics usually focus on a
single criterion each, such as how well the asset aligned with the input text.
These metrics lack the flexibility to generalize to different evaluation
criteria and might not align well with human preferences. Conducting user
preference studies is an alternative that offers both adaptability and
human-aligned results. User studies, however, can be very expensive to scale.
This paper presents an automatic, versatile, and human-aligned evaluation
metric for text-to-3D generative models. To this end, we first develop a prompt
generator using GPT-4V to generate evaluating prompts, which serve as input to
compare text-to-3D models. We further design a method instructing GPT-4V to
compare two 3D assets according to user-defined criteria. Finally, we use these
pairwise comparison results to assign these models Elo ratings. Experimental
results suggest our metric strongly align with human preference across
different evaluation criteria.

---

## 6. [DiarizationLM: Speaker Diarization Post-Processing with Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.03506)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.03506](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.03506)

**Authors**: Quan Wang, Yiling Huang, Guanlong Zhao, Evan Clark, Wei Xia, Hank Liao

**Published**: 2024-01-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google/speaker-id)

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce DiarizationLM, a framework to leverage large
language models (LLM) to post-process the outputs from a speaker diarization
system. Various goals can be achieved with the proposed framework, such as
improving the readability of the diarized transcript, or reducing the word
diarization error rate (WDER). In this framework, the outputs of the automatic
speech recognition (ASR) and speaker diarization systems are represented as a
compact textual format, which is included in the prompt to an optionally
finetuned LLM. The outputs of the LLM can be used as the refined diarization
results with the desired enhancement. As a post-processing step, this framework
can be easily applied to any off-the-shelf ASR and speaker diarization systems
without retraining existing components. Our experiments show that a finetuned
PaLM 2-S model can reduce the WDER by rel. 25.9% on the Fisher telephone
conversation dataset, and rel. 31% on the Callhome English dataset.

---

## 7. [AST-T5: Structure-Aware Pretraining for Code Generation and
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.03003)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.03003](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.03003)

**Authors**: Linyuan Gong, Mostafa Elhoushi, Alvin Cheung

**Published**: 2024-01-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gonglinyuan/ast_t5)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have made significant advancements in
code-related tasks, yet many LLMs treat code as simple sequences, neglecting
its structured nature. We introduce AST-T5, a novel pretraining paradigm that
leverages the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) for enhanced code generation,
transpilation, and understanding. Using dynamic programming, our AST-Aware
Segmentation retains code structure, while our AST-Aware Span Corruption
objective equips the model to reconstruct various code structures. Unlike other
models, AST-T5 avoids intricate program analyses or architectural changes, so
it integrates seamlessly with any encoder-decoder Transformer. Evaluations show
that AST-T5 consistently outperforms similar-sized LMs across various
code-related tasks. Structure-awareness makes AST-T5 particularly powerful in
code-to-code tasks, surpassing CodeT5 by 2 points in exact match score for the
Bugs2Fix task and by 3 points in exact match score for Java-C# Transpilation in
CodeXGLUE. Our code and model are publicly available at
https://github.com/gonglinyuan/ast_t5.

---

## 8. [CRUXEval: A Benchmark for Code Reasoning, Understanding and Execution](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.03065)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.03065](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.03065)

**Authors**: Alex Gu, Baptiste Rozière, Hugh Leather, Armando Solar-Lezama, Gabriel Synnaeve, Sida I. Wang

**Published**: 2024-01-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

We present CRUXEval (Code Reasoning, Understanding, and eXecution
Evaluation), a benchmark consisting of 800 Python functions (3-13 lines). Each
function comes with an input-output pair, leading to two natural tasks: input
prediction and output prediction. First, we propose a generic recipe for
generating our execution benchmark which can be used to create future variation
of the benchmark. Second, we evaluate twenty code models on our benchmark and
discover that many recent high-scoring models on HumanEval do not show the same
improvements on our benchmark. Third, we show that simple CoT and fine-tuning
schemes can improve performance on our benchmark but remain far from solving
it. The best setup, GPT-4 with chain of thought (CoT), achieves a pass@1 of 75%
and 81% on input and output prediction, respectively. In contrast, Code Llama
34B achieves a pass@1 of 50% and 46% on input and output prediction,
highlighting the gap between open and closed source models. As no model is
close to acing CRUXEval, we provide examples of consistent GPT-4 failures on
simple programs as a lens into its code reasoning capabilities and areas for
improvement.

---

## 9. [Has Your Pretrained Model Improved? A Multi-head Posterior Based
  Approach](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.02987)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.02987](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02987)

**Authors**: Prince Aboagye, Yan Zheng, Junpeng Wang, Uday Singh Saini, Xin Dai, Michael Yeh, Yujie Fan, Zhongfang Zhuang, Shubham Jain, Liang Wang, Wei Zhang

**Published**: 2024-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

The emergence of pretrained models has significantly impacted from Natural
Language Processing (NLP) and Computer Vision to relational datasets.
Traditionally, these models are assessed through fine-tuned downstream tasks.
However, this raises the question of how to evaluate these models more
efficiently and more effectively. In this study, we explore a novel approach
where we leverage the meta features associated with each entity as a source of
worldly knowledge and employ entity representations from the models. We propose
using the consistency between these representations and the meta features as a
metric for evaluating pretrained models. Our method's effectiveness is
demonstrated across various domains, including models with relational datasets,
large language models and images models.

---

## 10. [AGG: Amortized Generative 3D Gaussians for Single Image to 3D](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04099)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04099](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04099)

**Authors**: Dejia Xu, Ye Yuan, Morteza Mardani, Sifei Liu, Jiaming Song, Zhangyang Wang, Arash Vahdat

**Published**: 2024-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Given the growing need for automatic 3D content creation pipelines, various
3D representations have been studied to generate 3D objects from a single
image. Due to its superior rendering efficiency, 3D Gaussian splatting-based
models have recently excelled in both 3D reconstruction and generation. 3D
Gaussian splatting approaches for image to 3D generation are often
optimization-based, requiring many computationally expensive score-distillation
steps. To overcome these challenges, we introduce an Amortized Generative 3D
Gaussian framework (AGG) that instantly produces 3D Gaussians from a single
image, eliminating the need for per-instance optimization. Utilizing an
intermediate hybrid representation, AGG decomposes the generation of 3D
Gaussian locations and other appearance attributes for joint optimization.
Moreover, we propose a cascaded pipeline that first generates a coarse
representation of the 3D data and later upsamples it with a 3D Gaussian
super-resolution module. Our method is evaluated against existing
optimization-based 3D Gaussian frameworks and sampling-based pipelines
utilizing other 3D representations, where AGG showcases competitive generation
abilities both qualitatively and quantitatively while being several orders of
magnitude faster. Project page: https://ir1d.github.io/AGG/

---

## 11. [TeleChat Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.03804)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.03804](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.03804)

**Authors**: Zihan Wang, Xinzhang Liu, Shixuan Liu, Yitong Yao, Yuyao Huang, Zhongjiang He, Xuelong Li, Yongxiang Li, Zhonghao Che, Zhaoxi Zhang, Yan Wang, Xin Wang, Luwen Pu, Huihan Xu, Ruiyu Fang, Yu Zhao, Jie Zhang, Xiaomeng Huang, Zhilong Lu, Jiaxin Peng, Wenjun Zheng, Shiquan Wang, Bingkai Yang, Xuewei he, Zhuoru Jiang, Qiyi Xie, Yanhan Zhang, Zhongqiu Li, Lingling Shi, Weiwei Fu, Yin Zhang, Zilu Huang, Sishi Xiong, Yuxiang Zhang, Chao Wang, Shuangyong Song

**Published**: 2024-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

In this technical report, we present TeleChat, a collection of large language
models (LLMs) with parameters of 3 billion, 7 billion and 12 billion. It
includes pretrained language models as well as fine-tuned chat models that is
aligned with human preferences. TeleChat is initially pretrained on an
extensive corpus containing a diverse collection of texts from both English and
Chinese languages, including trillions of tokens. Subsequently, the model
undergoes fine-tuning to align with human preferences, following a detailed
methodology that we describe. We evaluate the performance of TeleChat on
various tasks, including language understanding, mathematics, reasoning, code
generation, and knowledge-based question answering. Our findings indicate that
TeleChat achieves comparable performance to other open-source models of similar
size across a wide range of public benchmarks. To support future research and
applications utilizing LLMs, we release the fine-tuned model checkpoints of
TeleChat's 7B and 12B variant, along with code and a portion of our pretraining
data, to the public community.

---
