# Daily Papers - 2024-01-11

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-11)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [TrustLLM: Trustworthiness in Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05561)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05561](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05561)

**Authors**: Lichao Sun, Yue Huang, Haoran Wang, Siyuan Wu, Qihui Zhang, Chujie Gao, Yixin Huang, Wenhan Lyu, Yixuan Zhang, Xiner Li, Zhengliang Liu, Yijue Wang, Zhikun Zhang, Bhavya Kailkhura, Caiming Xiong, Chao Zhang, Chaowei Xiao, Chunyuan Li, Eric Xing, Furong Huang, Hao Liu, Heng Ji, Hongyi Wang, Huan Zhang, Huaxiu Yao, Manolis Kellis, Marinka Zitnik, Meng Jiang, Mohit Bansal, James Zou, Jian Pei, Jian Liu, Jiawei Han, Jieyu Zhao, Jiliang Tang, Jindong Wang, John Mitchell, Kai Shu, Kaidi Xu, Kai-Wei Chang, Lifang He, Lifu Huang, Michael Backes, Neil Zhenqiang Gong, Philip S. Yu, Pin-Yu Chen, Quanquan Gu, Ran Xu, Rex Ying, Shuiwang Ji, Suman Jana, Tianlong Chen, Tianming Liu, Tianyi Zhou, Xiang Li, Xiangliang Zhang, Xiao Wang, Xing Xie, Xun Chen, Xuyu Wang, Yan Liu, Yanfang Ye, Yinzhi Cao, Yue Zhao

**Published**: 2024-01-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 69

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/HowieHwong/TrustLLM)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs), exemplified by ChatGPT, have gained
considerable attention for their excellent natural language processing
capabilities. Nonetheless, these LLMs present many challenges, particularly in
the realm of trustworthiness. Therefore, ensuring the trustworthiness of LLMs
emerges as an important topic. This paper introduces TrustLLM, a comprehensive
study of trustworthiness in LLMs, including principles for different dimensions
of trustworthiness, established benchmark, evaluation, and analysis of
trustworthiness for mainstream LLMs, and discussion of open challenges and
future directions. Specifically, we first propose a set of principles for
trustworthy LLMs that span eight different dimensions. Based on these
principles, we further establish a benchmark across six dimensions including
truthfulness, safety, fairness, robustness, privacy, and machine ethics. We
then present a study evaluating 16 mainstream LLMs in TrustLLM, consisting of
over 30 datasets. Our findings firstly show that in general trustworthiness and
utility (i.e., functional effectiveness) are positively related. Secondly, our
observations reveal that proprietary LLMs generally outperform most open-source
counterparts in terms of trustworthiness, raising concerns about the potential
risks of widely accessible open-source LLMs. However, a few open-source LLMs
come very close to proprietary ones. Thirdly, it is important to note that some
LLMs may be overly calibrated towards exhibiting trustworthiness, to the extent
that they compromise their utility by mistakenly treating benign prompts as
harmful and consequently not responding. Finally, we emphasize the importance
of ensuring transparency not only in the models themselves but also in the
technologies that underpin trustworthiness. Knowing the specific trustworthy
technologies that have been employed is crucial for analyzing their
effectiveness.

---

## 2. [PIXART-δ: Fast and Controllable Image Generation with Latent
  Consistency Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05252)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05252](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05252)

**Authors**: Junsong Chen, Yue Wu, Simian Luo, Enze Xie, Sayak Paul, Ping Luo, Hang Zhao, Zhenguo Li

**Published**: 2024-01-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 49

### Abstract

This technical report introduces PIXART-{\delta}, a text-to-image synthesis
framework that integrates the Latent Consistency Model (LCM) and ControlNet
into the advanced PIXART-{\alpha} model. PIXART-{\alpha} is recognized for its
ability to generate high-quality images of 1024px resolution through a
remarkably efficient training process. The integration of LCM in
PIXART-{\delta} significantly accelerates the inference speed, enabling the
production of high-quality images in just 2-4 steps. Notably, PIXART-{\delta}
achieves a breakthrough 0.5 seconds for generating 1024x1024 pixel images,
marking a 7x improvement over the PIXART-{\alpha}. Additionally,
PIXART-{\delta} is designed to be efficiently trainable on 32GB V100 GPUs
within a single day. With its 8-bit inference capability (von Platen et al.,
2023), PIXART-{\delta} can synthesize 1024px images within 8GB GPU memory
constraints, greatly enhancing its usability and accessibility. Furthermore,
incorporating a ControlNet-like module enables fine-grained control over
text-to-image diffusion models. We introduce a novel ControlNet-Transformer
architecture, specifically tailored for Transformers, achieving explicit
controllability alongside high-quality image generation. As a state-of-the-art,
open-source image generation model, PIXART-{\delta} offers a promising
alternative to the Stable Diffusion family of models, contributing
significantly to text-to-image synthesis.

---

## 3. [Transformers are Multi-State RNNs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.06104)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.06104](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06104)

**Authors**: Matanel Oren, Michael Hassid, Yossi Adi, Roy Schwartz

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 39

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/schwartz-lab-nlp/tova)

### Abstract

Transformers are considered conceptually different compared to the previous
generation of state-of-the-art NLP models - recurrent neural networks (RNNs).
In this work, we demonstrate that decoder-only transformers can in fact be
conceptualized as infinite multi-state RNNs - an RNN variant with unlimited
hidden state size. We further show that pretrained transformers can be
converted into finite multi-state RNNs by fixing the size of their
hidden state. We observe that several existing transformers cache compression
techniques can be framed as such conversion policies, and introduce a novel
policy, TOVA, which is simpler compared to these policies. Our experiments with
several long range tasks indicate that TOVA outperforms all other baseline
policies, while being nearly on par with the full (infinite) model, and using
in some cases only 1{8} of the original cache size. Our results
indicate that transformer decoder LLMs often behave in practice as RNNs. They
also lay out the option of mitigating one of their most painful computational
bottlenecks - the size of their cache memory. We publicly release our code at
https://github.com/schwartz-lab-NLP/TOVA.

---

## 4. [Sleeper Agents: Training Deceptive LLMs that Persist Through Safety
  Training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05566)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05566](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05566)

**Authors**: Evan Hubinger, Carson Denison, Jesse Mu, Mike Lambert, Meg Tong, Monte MacDiarmid, Tamera Lanham, Daniel M. Ziegler, Tim Maxwell, Newton Cheng, Adam Jermyn, Amanda Askell, Ansh Radhakrishnan, Cem Anil, David Duvenaud, Deep Ganguli, Fazl Barez, Jack Clark, Kamal Ndousse, Kshitij Sachan, Michael Sellitto, Mrinank Sharma, Nova DasSarma, Roger Grosse, Shauna Kravec, Yuntao Bai, Zachary Witten, Marina Favaro, Jan Brauner, Holden Karnofsky, Paul Christiano, Samuel R. Bowman, Logan Graham, Jared Kaplan, Sören Mindermann, Ryan Greenblatt, Buck Shlegeris, Nicholas Schiefer, Ethan Perez

**Published**: 2024-01-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/anthropics/sleeper-agents-paper)

### Abstract

Humans are capable of strategically deceptive behavior: behaving helpfully in
most situations, but then behaving very differently in order to pursue
alternative objectives when given the opportunity. If an AI system learned such
a deceptive strategy, could we detect it and remove it using current
state-of-the-art safety training techniques? To study this question, we
construct proof-of-concept examples of deceptive behavior in large language
models (LLMs). For example, we train models that write secure code when the
prompt states that the year is 2023, but insert exploitable code when the
stated year is 2024. We find that such backdoored behavior can be made
persistent, so that it is not removed by standard safety training techniques,
including supervised fine-tuning, reinforcement learning, and adversarial
training (eliciting unsafe behavior and then training to remove it). The
backdoored behavior is most persistent in the largest models and in models
trained to produce chain-of-thought reasoning about deceiving the training
process, with the persistence remaining even when the chain-of-thought is
distilled away. Furthermore, rather than removing backdoors, we find that
adversarial training can teach models to better recognize their backdoor
triggers, effectively hiding the unsafe behavior. Our results suggest that,
once a model exhibits deceptive behavior, standard techniques could fail to
remove such deception and create a false impression of safety.

---

## 5. [InseRF: Text-Driven Generative Object Insertion in Neural 3D Scenes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05335)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05335](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05335)

**Authors**: Mohamad Shahbazi, Liesbeth Claessens, Michael Niemeyer, Edo Collins, Alessio Tonioni, Luc Van Gool, Federico Tombari

**Published**: 2024-01-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

We introduce InseRF, a novel method for generative object insertion in the
NeRF reconstructions of 3D scenes. Based on a user-provided textual description
and a 2D bounding box in a reference viewpoint, InseRF generates new objects in
3D scenes. Recently, methods for 3D scene editing have been profoundly
transformed, owing to the use of strong priors of text-to-image diffusion
models in 3D generative modeling. Existing methods are mostly effective in
editing 3D scenes via style and appearance changes or removing existing
objects. Generating new objects, however, remains a challenge for such methods,
which we address in this study. Specifically, we propose grounding the 3D
object insertion to a 2D object insertion in a reference view of the scene. The
2D edit is then lifted to 3D using a single-view object reconstruction method.
The reconstructed object is then inserted into the scene, guided by the priors
of monocular depth estimation methods. We evaluate our method on various 3D
scenes and provide an in-depth analysis of the proposed components. Our
experiments with generative insertion of objects in several 3D scenes indicate
the effectiveness of our method compared to the existing methods. InseRF is
capable of controllable and 3D-consistent object insertion without requiring
explicit 3D information as input. Please visit our project page at
https://mohamad-shahbazi.github.io/inserf.

---

## 6. [URHand: Universal Relightable Hands](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05334)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05334](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05334)

**Authors**: Zhaoxi Chen, Gyeongsik Moon, Kaiwen Guo, Chen Cao, Stanislav Pidhorskyi, Tomas Simon, Rohan Joshi, Yuan Dong, Yichen Xu, Bernardo Pires, He Wen, Lucas Evans, Bo Peng, Julia Buffalini, Autumn Trimble, Kevyn McPhail, Melissa Schoeller, Shoou-I Yu, Javier Romero, Michael Zollhöfer, Yaser Sheikh, Ziwei Liu, Shunsuke Saito

**Published**: 2024-01-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

Existing photorealistic relightable hand models require extensive
identity-specific observations in different views, poses, and illuminations,
and face challenges in generalizing to natural illuminations and novel
identities. To bridge this gap, we present URHand, the first universal
relightable hand model that generalizes across viewpoints, poses,
illuminations, and identities. Our model allows few-shot personalization using
images captured with a mobile phone, and is ready to be photorealistically
rendered under novel illuminations. To simplify the personalization process
while retaining photorealism, we build a powerful universal relightable prior
based on neural relighting from multi-view images of hands captured in a light
stage with hundreds of identities. The key challenge is scaling the
cross-identity training while maintaining personalized fidelity and sharp
details without compromising generalization under natural illuminations. To
this end, we propose a spatially varying linear lighting model as the neural
renderer that takes physics-inspired shading as input feature. By removing
non-linear activations and bias, our specifically designed lighting model
explicitly keeps the linearity of light transport. This enables single-stage
training from light-stage data while generalizing to real-time rendering under
arbitrary continuous illuminations across diverse identities. In addition, we
introduce the joint learning of a physically based model and our neural
relighting model, which further improves fidelity and generalization. Extensive
experiments show that our approach achieves superior performance over existing
methods in terms of both quality and generalizability. We also demonstrate
quick personalization of URHand from a short phone scan of an unseen identity.

---

## 7. [Distilling Vision-Language Models on Millions of Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.06129)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.06129](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06129)

**Authors**: Yue Zhao, Long Zhao, Xingyi Zhou, Jialin Wu, Chun-Te Chu, Hui Miao, Florian Schroff, Hartwig Adam, Ting Liu, Boqing Gong, Philipp Krähenbühl, Liangzhe Yuan

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

The recent advance in vision-language models is largely attributed to the
abundance of image-text data. We aim to replicate this success for
video-language models, but there simply is not enough human-curated video-text
data available. We thus resort to fine-tuning a video-language model from a
strong image-language baseline with synthesized instructional data. The
resulting video-language model is then used to auto-label millions of videos to
generate high-quality captions. We show the adapted video-language model
performs well on a wide range of video-language benchmarks. For instance, it
surpasses the best prior result on open-ended NExT-QA by 2.8%. Besides, our
model generates detailed descriptions for previously unseen videos, which
provide better textual supervision than existing methods. Experiments show that
a video-language dual-encoder model contrastively trained on these
auto-generated captions is 3.8% better than the strongest baseline that also
leverages vision-language models. Our best model outperforms state-of-the-art
methods on MSR-VTT zero-shot text-to-video retrieval by 6%.

---

## 8. [Bootstrapping LLM-based Task-Oriented Dialogue Agents via Self-Talk](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05033)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05033](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05033)

**Authors**: Dennis Ulmer, Elman Mansimov, Kaixiang Lin, Justin Sun, Xibin Gao, Yi Zhang

**Published**: 2024-01-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are powerful dialogue agents, but specializing
them towards fulfilling a specific function can be challenging. Instructing
tuning, i.e. tuning models on instruction and sample responses generated by
humans (Ouyang et al., 2022), has proven as an effective method to do so, yet
requires a number of data samples that a) might not be available or b) costly
to generate. Furthermore, this cost increases when the goal is to make the LLM
follow a specific workflow within a dialogue instead of single instructions.
Inspired by the self-play technique in reinforcement learning and the use of
LLMs to simulate human agents, we propose a more effective method for data
collection through LLMs engaging in a conversation in various roles. This
approach generates a training data via "self-talk" of LLMs that can be refined
and utilized for supervised fine-tuning. We introduce an automated way to
measure the (partial) success of a dialogue. This metric is used to filter the
generated conversational data that is fed back in LLM for training. Based on
our automated and human evaluations of conversation quality, we demonstrate
that such self-talk data improves results. In addition, we examine the various
characteristics that showcase the quality of generated dialogues and how they
can be connected to their potential utility as training data.

---

## 9. [The Impact of Reasoning Step Length on Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04925)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04925](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04925)

**Authors**: Mingyu Jin, Qinkai Yu, Dong shu, Haiyan Zhao, Wenyue Hua, Yanda Meng, Yongfeng Zhang, Mengnan Du

**Published**: 2024-01-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jmyissb/The-Impact-of-Reasoning-Step-Length-on-Large-Language-Models)

### Abstract

Chain of Thought (CoT) is significant in improving the reasoning abilities of
large language models (LLMs). However, the correlation between the
effectiveness of CoT and the length of reasoning steps in prompts remains
largely unknown. To shed light on this, we have conducted several empirical
experiments to explore the relations. Specifically, we design experiments that
expand and compress the rationale reasoning steps within CoT demonstrations,
while keeping all other factors constant. We have the following key findings.
First, the results indicate that lengthening the reasoning steps in prompts,
even without adding new information into the prompt, considerably enhances
LLMs' reasoning abilities across multiple datasets. Alternatively, shortening
the reasoning steps, even while preserving the key information, significantly
diminishes the reasoning abilities of models. This finding highlights the
importance of the number of steps in CoT prompts and provides practical
guidance to make better use of LLMs' potential in complex problem-solving
scenarios. Second, we also investigated the relationship between the
performance of CoT and the rationales used in demonstrations. Surprisingly, the
result shows that even incorrect rationales can yield favorable outcomes if
they maintain the requisite length of inference. Third, we observed that the
advantages of increasing reasoning steps are task-dependent: simpler tasks
require fewer steps, whereas complex tasks gain significantly from longer
inference sequences.

---

## 10. [ANIM-400K: A Large-Scale Dataset for Automated End-To-End Dubbing of
  Video](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05314)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05314](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05314)

**Authors**: Kevin Cai, Chonghua Liu, David M. Chan

**Published**: 2024-01-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/davidmchan/anim400k)

### Abstract

The Internet's wealth of content, with up to 60% published in English,
starkly contrasts the global population, where only 18.8% are English speakers,
and just 5.1% consider it their native language, leading to disparities in
online information access. Unfortunately, automated processes for dubbing of
video - replacing the audio track of a video with a translated alternative -
remains a complex and challenging task due to pipelines, necessitating precise
timing, facial movement synchronization, and prosody matching. While end-to-end
dubbing offers a solution, data scarcity continues to impede the progress of
both end-to-end and pipeline-based methods. In this work, we introduce
Anim-400K, a comprehensive dataset of over 425K aligned animated video segments
in Japanese and English supporting various video-related tasks, including
automated dubbing, simultaneous translation, guided video summarization, and
genre/theme/style classification. Our dataset is made publicly available for
research purposes at https://github.com/davidmchan/Anim400K.

---

## 11. [Score Distillation Sampling with Learned Manifold Corrective](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05293)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05293](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05293)

**Authors**: Thiemo Alldieck, Nikos Kolotouros, Cristian Sminchisescu

**Published**: 2024-01-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Score Distillation Sampling (SDS) is a recent but already widely popular
method that relies on an image diffusion model to control optimization problems
using text prompts. In this paper, we conduct an in-depth analysis of the SDS
loss function, identify an inherent problem with its formulation, and propose a
surprisingly easy but effective fix. Specifically, we decompose the loss into
different factors and isolate the component responsible for noisy gradients. In
the original formulation, high text guidance is used to account for the noise,
leading to unwanted side effects. Instead, we train a shallow network mimicking
the timestep-dependent denoising deficiency of the image diffusion model in
order to effectively factor it out. We demonstrate the versatility and the
effectiveness of our novel loss formulation through several qualitative and
quantitative experiments, including optimization-based image synthesis and
editing, zero-shot image translation network training, and text-to-3D
synthesis.

---

## 12. [Efficient LLM inference solution on Intel GPU](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05391)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05391](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05391)

**Authors**: Hui Wu, Yi Gan, Feng Yuan, Jing Ma, Wei Zhu, Yutao Xu, Hong Zhu, Yuhua Zhu, Xiaoli Liu, Jinghui Gu

**Published**: 2023-12-19 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Transformer based Large Language Models (LLMs) have been widely used in many
fields, and the efficiency of LLM inference becomes hot topic in real
applications. However, LLMs are usually complicatedly designed in model
structure with massive operations and perform inference in the auto-regressive
mode, making it a challenging task to design a system with high efficiency.
  In this paper, we propose an efficient LLM inference solution with low
latency and high throughput. Firstly, we simplify the LLM decoder layer by
fusing data movement and element-wise operations to reduce the memory access
frequency and lower system latency. We also propose a segment KV cache policy
to keep key/value of the request and response tokens in separate physical
memory for effective device memory management, helping enlarge the runtime
batch size and improve system throughput. A customized
Scaled-Dot-Product-Attention kernel is designed to match our fusion policy
based on the segment KV cache solution. We implement our LLM inference solution
on Intel GPU and publish it publicly. Compared with the standard HuggingFace
implementation, the proposed solution achieves up to 7x lower token latency and
27x higher throughput for some popular LLMs on Intel GPU.

---
