# Daily Papers - 2024-01-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-10)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [MagicVideo-V2: Multi-Stage High-Aesthetic Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04468)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04468](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04468)

**Authors**: Weimin Wang, Jiawei Liu, Zhijie Lin, Jiangqiao Yan, Shuo Chen, Chetwin Low, Tuyen Hoang, Jie Wu, Jun Hao Liew, Daquan Zhou, Jiashi Feng

**Published**: 2024-01-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 49

### Abstract

The growing demand for high-fidelity video generation from textual
descriptions has catalyzed significant research in this field. In this work, we
introduce MagicVideo-V2 that integrates the text-to-image model, video motion
generator, reference image embedding module and frame interpolation module into
an end-to-end video generation pipeline. Benefiting from these architecture
designs, MagicVideo-V2 can generate an aesthetically pleasing, high-resolution
video with remarkable fidelity and smoothness. It demonstrates superior
performance over leading Text-to-Video systems such as Runway, Pika 1.0, Morph,
Moon Valley and Stable Video Diffusion model via user evaluation at large
scale.

---

## 2. [Masked Audio Generation using a Single Non-Autoregressive Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04577)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04577](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04577)

**Authors**: Alon Ziv, Itai Gat, Gael Le Lan, Tal Remez, Felix Kreuk, Alexandre Défossez, Jade Copet, Gabriel Synnaeve, Yossi Adi

**Published**: 2024-01-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 45

### Abstract

We introduce MAGNeT, a masked generative sequence modeling method that
operates directly over several streams of audio tokens. Unlike prior work,
MAGNeT is comprised of a single-stage, non-autoregressive transformer. During
training, we predict spans of masked tokens obtained from a masking scheduler,
while during inference we gradually construct the output sequence using several
decoding steps. To further enhance the quality of the generated audio, we
introduce a novel rescoring method in which, we leverage an external
pre-trained model to rescore and rank predictions from MAGNeT, which will be
then used for later decoding steps. Lastly, we explore a hybrid version of
MAGNeT, in which we fuse between autoregressive and non-autoregressive models
to generate the first few seconds in an autoregressive manner while the rest of
the sequence is being decoded in parallel. We demonstrate the efficiency of
MAGNeT for the task of text-to-music and text-to-audio generation and conduct
an extensive empirical evaluation, considering both objective metrics and human
studies. The proposed approach is comparable to the evaluated baselines, while
being significantly faster (x7 faster than the autoregressive baseline).
Through ablation studies and analysis, we shed light on the importance of each
of the components comprising MAGNeT, together with pointing to the trade-offs
between autoregressive and non-autoregressive modeling, considering latency,
throughput, and generation quality. Samples are available on our demo page
https://pages.cs.huji.ac.il/adiyoss-lab/MAGNeT.

---

## 3. [Lightning Attention-2: A Free Lunch for Handling Unlimited Sequence
  Lengths in Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04658)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04658](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04658)

**Authors**: Zhen Qin, Weigao Sun, Dong Li, Xuyang Shen, Weixuan Sun, Yiran Zhong

**Published**: 2024-01-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opennlplab/lightning-attention)

### Abstract

Linear attention is an efficient attention mechanism that has recently
emerged as a promising alternative to conventional softmax attention. With its
ability to process tokens in linear computational complexities, linear
attention, in theory, can handle sequences of unlimited length without
sacrificing speed, i.e., maintaining a constant training speed for various
sequence lengths with a fixed memory consumption. However, due to the issue
with cumulative summation (cumsum), current linear attention algorithms cannot
demonstrate their theoretical advantage in a causal setting. In this paper, we
present Lightning Attention-2, the first linear attention implementation that
enables linear attention to realize its theoretical computational benefits. To
achieve this, we leverage the thought of tiling, separately handling the
intra-block and inter-block components in linear attention calculation.
Specifically, we utilize the conventional attention computation mechanism for
the intra-blocks and apply linear attention kernel tricks for the inter-blocks.
A tiling technique is adopted through both forward and backward procedures to
take full advantage of the GPU hardware. We implement our algorithm in Triton
to make it IO-aware and hardware-friendly. Various experiments are conducted on
different model sizes and sequence lengths. Lightning Attention-2 retains
consistent training and inference speed regardless of input sequence length and
is significantly faster than other attention mechanisms. The source code is
available at https://github.com/OpenNLPLab/lightning-attention.

---

## 4. [Chain-of-Table: Evolving Tables in the Reasoning Chain for Table
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04398)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04398](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04398)

**Authors**: Zilong Wang, Hao Zhang, Chun-Liang Li, Julian Martin Eisenschlos, Vincent Perot, Zifeng Wang, Lesly Miculicich, Yasuhisa Fujii, Jingbo Shang, Chen-Yu Lee, Tomas Pfister

**Published**: 2024-01-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/cyqiq/multicot)

### Abstract

Table-based reasoning with large language models (LLMs) is a promising
direction to tackle many table understanding tasks, such as table-based
question answering and fact verification. Compared with generic reasoning,
table-based reasoning requires the extraction of underlying semantics from both
free-form questions and semi-structured tabular data. Chain-of-Thought and its
similar approaches incorporate the reasoning chain in the form of textual
context, but it is still an open question how to effectively leverage tabular
data in the reasoning chain. We propose the Chain-of-Table framework, where
tabular data is explicitly used in the reasoning chain as a proxy for
intermediate thoughts. Specifically, we guide LLMs using in-context learning to
iteratively generate operations and update the table to represent a tabular
reasoning chain. LLMs can therefore dynamically plan the next operation based
on the results of the previous ones. This continuous evolution of the table
forms a chain, showing the reasoning process for a given tabular problem. The
chain carries structured information of the intermediate results, enabling more
accurate and reliable predictions. Chain-of-Table achieves new state-of-the-art
performance on WikiTQ, FeTaQA, and TabFact benchmarks across multiple LLM
choices.

---

## 5. [Jump Cut Smoothing for Talking Heads](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04718)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04718](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04718)

**Authors**: Xiaojuan Wang, Taesung Park, Yang Zhou, Eli Shechtman, Richard Zhang

**Published**: 2024-01-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

A jump cut offers an abrupt, sometimes unwanted change in the viewing
experience. We present a novel framework for smoothing these jump cuts, in the
context of talking head videos. We leverage the appearance of the subject from
the other source frames in the video, fusing it with a mid-level representation
driven by DensePose keypoints and face landmarks. To achieve motion, we
interpolate the keypoints and landmarks between the end frames around the cut.
We then use an image translation network from the keypoints and source frames,
to synthesize pixels. Because keypoints can contain errors, we propose a
cross-modal attention scheme to select and pick the most appropriate source
amongst multiple options for each key point. By leveraging this mid-level
representation, our method can achieve stronger results than a strong video
interpolation baseline. We demonstrate our method on various jump cuts in the
talking head videos, such as cutting filler words, pauses, and even random
cuts. Our experiments show that we can achieve seamless transitions, even in
the challenging cases where the talking head rotates or moves drastically in
the jump cut.

---

## 6. [Let's Go Shopping (LGS) -- Web-Scale Image-Text Dataset for Visual
  Concept Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04575)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04575](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04575)

**Authors**: Yatong Bai, Utsav Garg, Apaar Shanker, Haoming Zhang, Samyak Parajuli, Erhan Bas, Isidora Filipovic, Amelia N. Chu, Eugenia D Fomitcheva, Elliot Branson, Aerin Kim, Somayeh Sojoudi, Kyunghyun Cho

**Published**: 2024-01-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Vision and vision-language applications of neural networks, such as image
classification and captioning, rely on large-scale annotated datasets that
require non-trivial data-collecting processes. This time-consuming endeavor
hinders the emergence of large-scale datasets, limiting researchers and
practitioners to a small number of choices. Therefore, we seek more efficient
ways to collect and annotate images. Previous initiatives have gathered
captions from HTML alt-texts and crawled social media postings, but these data
sources suffer from noise, sparsity, or subjectivity. For this reason, we turn
to commercial shopping websites whose data meet three criteria: cleanliness,
informativeness, and fluency. We introduce the Let's Go Shopping (LGS) dataset,
a large-scale public dataset with 15 million image-caption pairs from publicly
available e-commerce websites. When compared with existing general-domain
datasets, the LGS images focus on the foreground object and have less complex
backgrounds. Our experiments on LGS show that the classifiers trained on
existing benchmark datasets do not readily generalize to e-commerce data, while
specific self-supervised visual feature extractors can better generalize.
Furthermore, LGS's high-quality e-commerce-focused images and bimodal nature
make it advantageous for vision-language bi-modal tasks: LGS enables
image-captioning models to generate richer captions and helps text-to-image
generation models achieve e-commerce style transfer.

---

## 7. [Narrowing the Knowledge Evaluation Gap: Open-Domain Question Answering
  with Multi-Granularity Answers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04695)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04695](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04695)

**Authors**: Gal Yona, Roee Aharoni, Mor Geva

**Published**: 2024-01-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Factual questions typically can be answered correctly at different levels of
granularity. For example, both ``August 4, 1961'' and ``1961'' are correct
answers to the question ``When was Barack Obama born?''. Standard question
answering (QA) evaluation protocols, however, do not explicitly take this into
account and compare a predicted answer against answers of a single granularity
level. In this work, we propose GRANOLA QA, a novel evaluation setting where a
predicted answer is evaluated in terms of accuracy and informativeness against
a set of multi-granularity answers. We present a simple methodology for
enriching existing datasets with multi-granularity answers, and create
GRANOLA-EQ, a multi-granularity version of the EntityQuestions dataset. We
evaluate a range of decoding methods on GRANOLA-EQ, including a new algorithm,
called Decoding with Response Aggregation (DRAG), that is geared towards
aligning the response granularity with the model's uncertainty. Our experiments
show that large language models with standard decoding tend to generate
specific answers, which are often incorrect. In contrast, when evaluated on
multi-granularity answers, DRAG yields a nearly 20 point increase in accuracy
on average, which further increases for rare entities. Overall, this reveals
that standard evaluation and decoding schemes may significantly underestimate
the knowledge encapsulated in LMs.

---

## 8. [FADI-AEC: Fast Score Based Diffusion Model Guided by Far-end Signal for
  Acoustic Echo Cancellation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.04283)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.04283](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04283)

**Authors**: Yang Liu, Li Wan, Yun Li, Yiteng Huang, Ming Sun, James Luan, Yangyang Shi, Xin Lei

**Published**: 2024-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Despite the potential of diffusion models in speech enhancement, their
deployment in Acoustic Echo Cancellation (AEC) has been restricted. In this
paper, we propose DI-AEC, pioneering a diffusion-based stochastic regeneration
approach dedicated to AEC. Further, we propose FADI-AEC, fast score-based
diffusion AEC framework to save computational demands, making it favorable for
edge devices. It stands out by running the score model once per frame,
achieving a significant surge in processing efficiency. Apart from that, we
introduce a novel noise generation technique where far-end signals are
utilized, incorporating both far-end and near-end signals to refine the score
model's accuracy. We test our proposed method on the ICASSP2023 Microsoft deep
echo cancellation challenge evaluation dataset, where our method outperforms
some of the end-to-end methods and other diffusion based echo cancellation
methods.

---
