# Daily Papers - 2024-01-12

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-12)

Total papers: 13

---

## 1. [DeepSeekMoE: Towards Ultimate Expert Specialization in
  Mixture-of-Experts Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.06066)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.06066](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06066)

**Organization**: DeepSeek

**Authors**: Damai Dai, Chengqi Deng, Chenggang Zhao, R. X. Xu, Huazuo Gao, Deli Chen, Jiashi Li, Wangding Zeng, Xingkai Yu, Y. Wu, Zhenda Xie, Y. K. Li, Panpan Huang, Fuli Luo, Chong Ruan, Zhifang Sui, Wenfeng Liang

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 59

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/deepseek-ai/deepseek-moe)

### Abstract

In the era of large language models, Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) is a promising
architecture for managing computational costs when scaling up model parameters.
However, conventional MoE architectures like GShard, which activate the top-K
out of N experts, face challenges in ensuring expert specialization, i.e.
each expert acquires non-overlapping and focused knowledge. In response, we
propose the DeepSeekMoE architecture towards ultimate expert specialization. It
involves two principal strategies: (1) finely segmenting the experts into mN
ones and activating mK from them, allowing for a more flexible combination of
activated experts; (2) isolating K_s experts as shared ones, aiming at
capturing common knowledge and mitigating redundancy in routed experts.
Starting from a modest scale with 2B parameters, we demonstrate that
DeepSeekMoE 2B achieves comparable performance with GShard 2.9B, which has 1.5
times the expert parameters and computation. In addition, DeepSeekMoE 2B nearly
approaches the performance of its dense counterpart with the same number of
total parameters, which set the upper bound of MoE models. Subsequently, we
scale up DeepSeekMoE to 16B parameters and show that it achieves comparable
performance with LLaMA2 7B, with only about 40% of computations. Further, our
preliminary efforts to scale up DeepSeekMoE to 145B parameters consistently
validate its substantial advantages over the GShard architecture, and show its
performance comparable with DeepSeek 67B, using only 28.5% (maybe even 18.2%)
of computations.

---

## 2. [PALP: Prompt Aligned Personalization of Text-to-Image Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.06105)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.06105](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06105)

**Authors**: Moab Arar, Andrey Voynov, Amir Hertz, Omri Avrahami, Shlomi Fruchter, Yael Pritch, Daniel Cohen-Or, Ariel Shamir

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 50

### Abstract

Content creators often aim to create personalized images using personal
subjects that go beyond the capabilities of conventional text-to-image models.
Additionally, they may want the resulting image to encompass a specific
location, style, ambiance, and more. Existing personalization methods may
compromise personalization ability or the alignment to complex textual prompts.
This trade-off can impede the fulfillment of user prompts and subject fidelity.
We propose a new approach focusing on personalization methods for a
single prompt to address this issue. We term our approach prompt-aligned
personalization. While this may seem restrictive, our method excels in
improving text alignment, enabling the creation of images with complex and
intricate prompts, which may pose a challenge for current techniques. In
particular, our method keeps the personalized model aligned with a target
prompt using an additional score distillation sampling term. We demonstrate the
versatility of our method in multi- and single-shot settings and further show
that it can compose multiple subjects or use inspiration from reference images,
such as artworks. We compare our approach quantitatively and qualitatively with
existing baselines and state-of-the-art techniques.

---

## 3. [Secrets of RLHF in Large Language Models Part II: Reward Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.06080)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.06080](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06080)

**Authors**: Binghai Wang, Rui Zheng, Lu Chen, Yan Liu, Shihan Dou, Caishuang Huang, Wei Shen, Senjie Jin, Enyu Zhou, Chenyu Shi, Songyang Gao, Nuo Xu, Yuhao Zhou, Xiaoran Fan, Zhiheng Xi, Jun Zhao, Xiao Wang, Tao Ji, Hang Yan, Lixing Shen, Zhan Chen, Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, Xipeng Qiu, Xuanjing Huang, Zuxuan Wu, Yu-Gang Jiang

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

### Abstract

Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has become a crucial
technology for aligning language models with human values and intentions,
enabling models to produce more helpful and harmless responses. Reward models
are trained as proxies for human preferences to drive reinforcement learning
optimization. While reward models are often considered central to achieving
high performance, they face the following challenges in practical applications:
(1) Incorrect and ambiguous preference pairs in the dataset may hinder the
reward model from accurately capturing human intent. (2) Reward models trained
on data from a specific distribution often struggle to generalize to examples
outside that distribution and are not suitable for iterative RLHF training.
  In this report, we attempt to address these two issues. (1) From a data
perspective, we propose a method to measure the strength of preferences within
the data, based on a voting mechanism of multiple reward models. Experimental
results confirm that data with varying preference strengths have different
impacts on reward model performance. We introduce a series of novel methods to
mitigate the influence of incorrect and ambiguous preferences in the dataset
and fully leverage high-quality preference data. (2) From an algorithmic
standpoint, we introduce contrastive learning to enhance the ability of reward
models to distinguish between chosen and rejected responses, thereby improving
model generalization. Furthermore, we employ meta-learning to enable the reward
model to maintain the ability to differentiate subtle differences in
out-of-distribution samples, and this approach can be utilized for iterative
RLHF optimization.

---

## 4. [TRIPS: Trilinear Point Splatting for Real-Time Radiance Field Rendering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.06003)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.06003](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06003)

**Authors**: Linus Franke, Darius Rückert, Marc Stamminger

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lfranke/trips)

### Abstract

Point-based radiance field rendering has demonstrated impressive results for
novel view synthesis, offering a compelling blend of rendering quality and
computational efficiency. However, also latest approaches in this domain are
not without their shortcomings. 3D Gaussian Splatting [Kerbl and Kopanas et al.
2023] struggles when tasked with rendering highly detailed scenes, due to
blurring and cloudy artifacts. On the other hand, ADOP [R\"uckert et al. 2022]
can accommodate crisper images, but the neural reconstruction network decreases
performance, it grapples with temporal instability and it is unable to
effectively address large gaps in the point cloud.
  In this paper, we present TRIPS (Trilinear Point Splatting), an approach that
combines ideas from both Gaussian Splatting and ADOP. The fundamental concept
behind our novel technique involves rasterizing points into a screen-space
image pyramid, with the selection of the pyramid layer determined by the
projected point size. This approach allows rendering arbitrarily large points
using a single trilinear write. A lightweight neural network is then used to
reconstruct a hole-free image including detail beyond splat resolution.
Importantly, our render pipeline is entirely differentiable, allowing for
automatic optimization of both point sizes and positions.
  Our evaluation demonstrate that TRIPS surpasses existing state-of-the-art
methods in terms of rendering quality while maintaining a real-time frame rate
of 60 frames per second on readily available hardware. This performance extends
to challenging scenarios, such as scenes featuring intricate geometry,
expansive landscapes, and auto-exposed footage.

---

## 5. [Parrot: Pareto-optimal Multi-Reward Reinforcement Learning Framework for
  Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05675)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05675](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05675)

**Authors**: Seung Hyun Lee, Yinxiao Li, Junjie Ke, Innfarn Yoo, Han Zhang, Jiahui Yu, Qifei Wang, Fei Deng, Glenn Entis, Junfeng He, Gang Li, Sangpil Kim, Irfan Essa, Feng Yang

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

Recent works demonstrate that using reinforcement learning (RL) with quality
rewards can enhance the quality of generated images in text-to-image (T2I)
generation. However, a simple aggregation of multiple rewards may cause
over-optimization in certain metrics and degradation in others, and it is
challenging to manually find the optimal weights. An effective strategy to
jointly optimize multiple rewards in RL for T2I generation is highly desirable.
This paper introduces Parrot, a novel multi-reward RL framework for T2I
generation. Through the use of the batch-wise Pareto optimal selection, Parrot
automatically identifies the optimal trade-off among different rewards during
the RL optimization of the T2I generation. Additionally, Parrot employs a joint
optimization approach for the T2I model and the prompt expansion network,
facilitating the generation of quality-aware text prompts, thus further
enhancing the final image quality. To counteract the potential catastrophic
forgetting of the original user prompt due to prompt expansion, we introduce
original prompt centered guidance at inference time, ensuring that the
generated image remains faithful to the user input. Extensive experiments and a
user study demonstrate that Parrot outperforms several baseline methods across
various quality criteria, including aesthetics, human preference, image
sentiment, and text-image alignment.

---

## 6. [Patchscope: A Unifying Framework for Inspecting Hidden Representations
  of Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.06102)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.06102](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06102)

**Authors**: Asma Ghandeharioun, Avi Caciularu, Adam Pearce, Lucas Dixon, Mor Geva

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Inspecting the information encoded in hidden representations of large
language models (LLMs) can explain models' behavior and verify their alignment
with human values. Given the capabilities of LLMs in generating
human-understandable text, we propose leveraging the model itself to explain
its internal representations in natural language. We introduce a framework
called Patchscopes and show how it can be used to answer a wide range of
research questions about an LLM's computation. We show that prior
interpretability methods based on projecting representations into the
vocabulary space and intervening on the LLM computation, can be viewed as
special instances of this framework. Moreover, several of their shortcomings
such as failure in inspecting early layers or lack of expressivity can be
mitigated by a Patchscope. Beyond unifying prior inspection techniques,
Patchscopes also opens up new possibilities such as using a more capable model
to explain the representations of a smaller model, and unlocks new applications
such as self-correction in multi-hop reasoning.

---

## 7. [TOFU: A Task of Fictitious Unlearning for LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.06121)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.06121](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06121)

**Authors**: Pratyush Maini, Zhili Feng, Avi Schwarzschild, Zachary C. Lipton, J. Zico Kolter

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/locuslab/tofu)

### Abstract

Large language models trained on massive corpora of data from the web can
memorize and reproduce sensitive or private data raising both legal and ethical
concerns. Unlearning, or tuning models to forget information present in their
training data, provides us with a way to protect private data after training.
Although several methods exist for such unlearning, it is unclear to what
extent they result in models equivalent to those where the data to be forgotten
was never learned in the first place. To address this challenge, we present
TOFU, a Task of Fictitious Unlearning, as a benchmark aimed at helping deepen
our understanding of unlearning. We offer a dataset of 200 diverse synthetic
author profiles, each consisting of 20 question-answer pairs, and a subset of
these profiles called the forget set that serves as the target for unlearning.
We compile a suite of metrics that work together to provide a holistic picture
of unlearning efficacy. Finally, we provide a set of baseline results from
existing unlearning algorithms. Importantly, none of the baselines we consider
show effective unlearning motivating continued efforts to develop approaches
for unlearning that effectively tune models so that they truly behave as if
they were never trained on the forget data at all.

---

## 8. [Towards Conversational Diagnostic AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05654)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05654](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05654)

**Authors**: Tao Tu, Anil Palepu, Mike Schaekermann, Khaled Saab, Jan Freyberg, Ryutaro Tanno, Amy Wang, Brenna Li, Mohamed Amin, Nenad Tomasev, Shekoofeh Azizi, Karan Singhal, Yong Cheng, Le Hou, Albert Webson, Kavita Kulkarni, S Sara Mahdavi, Christopher Semturs, Juraj Gottweis, Joelle Barral, Katherine Chou, Greg S Corrado, Yossi Matias, Alan Karthikesalingam, Vivek Natarajan

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

At the heart of medicine lies the physician-patient dialogue, where skillful
history-taking paves the way for accurate diagnosis, effective management, and
enduring trust. Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems capable of diagnostic
dialogue could increase accessibility, consistency, and quality of care.
However, approximating clinicians' expertise is an outstanding grand challenge.
Here, we introduce AMIE (Articulate Medical Intelligence Explorer), a Large
Language Model (LLM) based AI system optimized for diagnostic dialogue.
  AMIE uses a novel self-play based simulated environment with automated
feedback mechanisms for scaling learning across diverse disease conditions,
specialties, and contexts. We designed a framework for evaluating
clinically-meaningful axes of performance including history-taking, diagnostic
accuracy, management reasoning, communication skills, and empathy. We compared
AMIE's performance to that of primary care physicians (PCPs) in a randomized,
double-blind crossover study of text-based consultations with validated patient
actors in the style of an Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE). The
study included 149 case scenarios from clinical providers in Canada, the UK,
and India, 20 PCPs for comparison with AMIE, and evaluations by specialist
physicians and patient actors. AMIE demonstrated greater diagnostic accuracy
and superior performance on 28 of 32 axes according to specialist physicians
and 24 of 26 axes according to patient actors. Our research has several
limitations and should be interpreted with appropriate caution. Clinicians were
limited to unfamiliar synchronous text-chat which permits large-scale
LLM-patient interactions but is not representative of usual clinical practice.
While further research is required before AMIE could be translated to
real-world settings, the results represent a milestone towards conversational
diagnostic AI.

---

## 9. [LEGO:Language Enhanced Multi-modal Grounding Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.06071)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.06071](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06071)

**Authors**: Zhaowei Li, Qi Xu, Dong Zhang, Hang Song, Yiqing Cai, Qi Qi, Ran Zhou, Junting Pan, Zefeng Li, Van Tu Vu, Zhida Huang, Tao Wang

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Multi-modal large language models have demonstrated impressive performance
across various tasks in different modalities. However, existing multi-modal
models primarily emphasize capturing global information within each modality
while neglecting the importance of perceiving local information across
modalities. Consequently, these models lack the ability to effectively
understand the fine-grained details of input data, limiting their performance
in tasks that require a more nuanced understanding. To address this limitation,
there is a compelling need to develop models that enable fine-grained
understanding across multiple modalities, thereby enhancing their applicability
to a wide range of tasks. In this paper, we propose LEGO, a language enhanced
multi-modal grounding model. Beyond capturing global information like other
multi-modal models, our proposed model excels at tasks demanding a detailed
understanding of local information within the input. It demonstrates precise
identification and localization of specific regions in images or moments in
videos. To achieve this objective, we design a diversified dataset construction
pipeline, resulting in a multi-modal, multi-granularity dataset for model
training. The code, dataset, and demo of our model can be found at https:
//github.com/lzw-lzw/LEGO.

---

## 10. [Diffusion Priors for Dynamic View Synthesis from Monocular Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05583)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05583](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05583)

**Authors**: Chaoyang Wang, Peiye Zhuang, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Junli Cao, Guocheng Qian, Hsin-Ying Lee, Sergey Tulyakov

**Published**: 2024-01-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Dynamic novel view synthesis aims to capture the temporal evolution of visual
content within videos. Existing methods struggle to distinguishing between
motion and structure, particularly in scenarios where camera poses are either
unknown or constrained compared to object motion. Furthermore, with information
solely from reference images, it is extremely challenging to hallucinate unseen
regions that are occluded or partially observed in the given videos. To address
these issues, we first finetune a pretrained RGB-D diffusion model on the video
frames using a customization technique. Subsequently, we distill the knowledge
from the finetuned model to a 4D representations encompassing both dynamic and
static Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) components. The proposed pipeline achieves
geometric consistency while preserving the scene identity. We perform thorough
experiments to evaluate the efficacy of the proposed method qualitatively and
quantitatively. Our results demonstrate the robustness and utility of our
approach in challenging cases, further advancing dynamic novel view synthesis.

---

## 11. [Object-Centric Diffusion for Efficient Video Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05735)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05735](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05735)

**Authors**: Kumara Kahatapitiya, Adil Karjauv, Davide Abati, Fatih Porikli, Yuki M. Asano, Amirhossein Habibian

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Diffusion-based video editing have reached impressive quality and can
transform either the global style, local structure, and attributes of given
video inputs, following textual edit prompts. However, such solutions typically
incur heavy memory and computational costs to generate temporally-coherent
frames, either in the form of diffusion inversion and/or cross-frame attention.
In this paper, we conduct an analysis of such inefficiencies, and suggest
simple yet effective modifications that allow significant speed-ups whilst
maintaining quality. Moreover, we introduce Object-Centric Diffusion, coined as
OCD, to further reduce latency by allocating computations more towards
foreground edited regions that are arguably more important for perceptual
quality. We achieve this by two novel proposals: i) Object-Centric Sampling,
decoupling the diffusion steps spent on salient regions or background,
allocating most of the model capacity to the former, and ii) Object-Centric 3D
Token Merging, which reduces cost of cross-frame attention by fusing redundant
tokens in unimportant background regions. Both techniques are readily
applicable to a given video editing model without retraining, and can
drastically reduce its memory and computational cost. We evaluate our proposals
on inversion-based and control-signal-based editing pipelines, and show a
latency reduction up to 10x for a comparable synthesis quality.

---

## 12. [A Shocking Amount of the Web is Machine Translated: Insights from
  Multi-Way Parallelism](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05749)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05749](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05749)

**Authors**: Brian Thompson, Mehak Preet Dhaliwal, Peter Frisch, Tobias Domhan, Marcello Federico

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/amazon-science/multi-way-parallel-ccmatrix)

### Abstract

We show that content on the web is often translated into many languages, and
the low quality of these multi-way translations indicates they were likely
created using Machine Translation (MT). Multi-way parallel, machine generated
content not only dominates the translations in lower resource languages; it
also constitutes a large fraction of the total web content in those languages.
We also find evidence of a selection bias in the type of content which is
translated into many languages, consistent with low quality English content
being translated en masse into many lower resource languages, via MT. Our work
raises serious concerns about training models such as multilingual large
language models on both monolingual and bilingual data scraped from the web.

---

## 13. [Tuning LLMs with Contrastive Alignment Instructions for Machine
  Translation in Unseen, Low-resource Languages](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.05811)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.05811](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05811)

**Authors**: Zhuoyuan Mao, Yen Yu

**Published**: 2024-01-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

This article introduces contrastive alignment instructions (AlignInstruct) to
address two challenges in machine translation (MT) on large language models
(LLMs). One is the expansion of supported languages to previously unseen ones.
The second relates to the lack of data in low-resource languages. Model
fine-tuning through MT instructions (MTInstruct) is a straightforward approach
to the first challenge. However, MTInstruct is limited by weak cross-lingual
signals inherent in the second challenge. AlignInstruct emphasizes
cross-lingual supervision via a cross-lingual discriminator built using
statistical word alignments. Our results based on fine-tuning the BLOOMZ models
(1b1, 3b, and 7b1) in up to 24 unseen languages showed that: (1) LLMs can
effectively translate unseen languages using MTInstruct; (2) AlignInstruct led
to consistent improvements in translation quality across 48 translation
directions involving English; (3) Discriminator-based instructions outperformed
their generative counterparts as cross-lingual instructions; (4) AlignInstruct
improved performance in 30 zero-shot directions.

---
