# Daily Papers - 2024-01-29

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-29)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [SliceGPT: Compress Large Language Models by Deleting Rows and Columns](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.15024)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.15024](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15024)

**Authors**: Saleh Ashkboos, Maximilian L. Croci, Marcelo Gennari do Nascimento, Torsten Hoefler, James Hensman

**Published**: 2024-01-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 73

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/transformercompression)

### Abstract

Large language models have become the cornerstone of natural language
processing, but their use comes with substantial costs in terms of compute and
memory resources. Sparsification provides a solution to alleviate these
resource constraints, and recent works have shown that trained models can be
sparsified post-hoc. Existing sparsification techniques face challenges as they
need additional data structures and offer constrained speedup with current
hardware. In this paper we present SliceGPT, a new post-training sparsification
scheme which replaces each weight matrix with a smaller (dense) matrix,
reducing the embedding dimension of the network. Through extensive
experimentation, we show that SliceGPT can remove up to 25% of the model
parameters (including embeddings) for LLAMA2-70B, OPT 66B and Phi-2 models
while maintaining 99%, 99% and 90% zero-shot task performance of the dense
model respectively. Our sliced models run on fewer GPUs and run faster without
any additional code optimization: on 24GB consumer GPUs we reduce the total
compute for inference on LLAMA2-70B to 64% of that of the dense model; on 40GB
A100 GPUs we reduce it to 66%. We offer a new insight, computational invariance
in transformer networks, which enables SliceGPT and we hope it will inspire and
enable future avenues to reduce memory and computation demands for pre-trained
models. Code is available at:
https://github.com/microsoft/TransformerCompression

---

## 2. [Learning Universal Predictors](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14953)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14953](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14953)

**Authors**: Jordi Grau-Moya, Tim Genewein, Marcus Hutter, Laurent Orseau, Grégoire Delétang, Elliot Catt, Anian Ruoss, Li Kevin Wenliang, Christopher Mattern, Matthew Aitchison, Joel Veness

**Published**: 2024-01-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-deepmind/neural_networks_solomonoff_induction)

### Abstract

Meta-learning has emerged as a powerful approach to train neural networks to
learn new tasks quickly from limited data. Broad exposure to different tasks
leads to versatile representations enabling general problem solving. But, what
are the limits of meta-learning? In this work, we explore the potential of
amortizing the most powerful universal predictor, namely Solomonoff Induction
(SI), into neural networks via leveraging meta-learning to its limits. We use
Universal Turing Machines (UTMs) to generate training data used to expose
networks to a broad range of patterns. We provide theoretical analysis of the
UTM data generation processes and meta-training protocols. We conduct
comprehensive experiments with neural architectures (e.g. LSTMs, Transformers)
and algorithmic data generators of varying complexity and universality. Our
results suggest that UTM data is a valuable resource for meta-learning, and
that it can be used to train neural networks capable of learning universal
prediction strategies.

---

## 3. [EAGLE: Speculative Sampling Requires Rethinking Feature Uncertainty](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.15077)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.15077](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15077)

**Authors**: Yuhui Li, Fangyun Wei, Chao Zhang, Hongyang Zhang

**Published**: 2024-01-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

Auto-regressive decoding makes the inference of Large Language Models (LLMs)
time-consuming. We propose a simple framework, EAGLE (Extrapolation Algorithm
for Greater Language-model Efficiency), for lossless acceleration. Unlike
traditional speculative sampling methods, EAGLE operates the drafting process
auto-regressively at the more regular (second-top-layer) feature level and
addresses the sampling uncertainty issues in the next-feature prediction
problems by integrating tokens from one time step ahead. The acceleration
provided by EAGLE is lossless: it involves no fine-tuning of the target LLM,
and the generated text maintains the same distribution as that of vanilla
auto-regressive decoding. As of the submission of this paper, EAGLE is the
fastest known framework within the speculative sampling family. On MT-bench,
EAGLE is 3x faster than vanilla decoding, 2x faster than Lookahead, and 1.6x
faster than Medusa. Using gpt-fast, EAGLE attains on average 160 tokens/s with
LLaMA2-Chat 13B on a single RTX 3090 GPU, compared to 24 tokens/s of
Huggingface's implementations.

---

## 4. [Taiyi-Diffusion-XL: Advancing Bilingual Text-to-Image Generation with
  Large Vision-Language Model Support](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14688)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14688](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14688)

**Authors**: Xiaojun Wu, Dixiang Zhang, Ruyi Gan, Junyu Lu, Ziwei Wu, Renliang Sun, Jiaxing Zhang, Pingjian Zhang, Yan Song

**Published**: 2024-01-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/IDEA-CCNL/Taiyi-Diffusion-XL)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in text-to-image models have significantly enhanced image
generation capabilities, yet a notable gap of open-source models persists in
bilingual or Chinese language support. To address this need, we present
Taiyi-Diffusion-XL, a new Chinese and English bilingual text-to-image model
which is developed by extending the capabilities of CLIP and
Stable-Diffusion-XL through a process of bilingual continuous pre-training.
This approach includes the efficient expansion of vocabulary by integrating the
most frequently used Chinese characters into CLIP's tokenizer and embedding
layers, coupled with an absolute position encoding expansion. Additionally, we
enrich text prompts by large vision-language model, leading to better images
captions and possess higher visual quality. These enhancements are subsequently
applied to downstream text-to-image models. Our empirical results indicate that
the developed CLIP model excels in bilingual image-text retrieval.Furthermore,
the bilingual image generation capabilities of Taiyi-Diffusion-XL surpass
previous models. This research leads to the development and open-sourcing of
the Taiyi-Diffusion-XL model, representing a notable advancement in the field
of image generation, particularly for Chinese language applications. This
contribution is a step forward in addressing the need for more diverse language
support in multimodal research. The model and demonstration are made publicly
available at
https://huggingface.co/IDEA-CCNL/Taiyi-Stable-Diffusion-XL-3.5B/{this
https URL}, fostering further research and collaboration in this domain.

---

## 5. [TIP-Editor: An Accurate 3D Editor Following Both Text-Prompts And
  Image-Prompts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14828)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14828](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14828)

**Authors**: Jingyu Zhuang, Di Kang, Yan-Pei Cao, Guanbin Li, Liang Lin, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2024-01-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Text-driven 3D scene editing has gained significant attention owing to its
convenience and user-friendliness. However, existing methods still lack
accurate control of the specified appearance and location of the editing result
due to the inherent limitations of the text description. To this end, we
propose a 3D scene editing framework, TIPEditor, that accepts both text and
image prompts and a 3D bounding box to specify the editing region. With the
image prompt, users can conveniently specify the detailed appearance/style of
the target content in complement to the text description, enabling accurate
control of the appearance. Specifically, TIP-Editor employs a stepwise 2D
personalization strategy to better learn the representation of the existing
scene and the reference image, in which a localization loss is proposed to
encourage correct object placement as specified by the bounding box.
Additionally, TIPEditor utilizes explicit and flexible 3D Gaussian splatting as
the 3D representation to facilitate local editing while keeping the background
unchanged. Extensive experiments have demonstrated that TIP-Editor conducts
accurate editing following the text and image prompts in the specified bounding
box region, consistently outperforming the baselines in editing quality, and
the alignment to the prompts, qualitatively and quantitatively.

---

## 6. [Generative Expressive Robot Behaviors using Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14673)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14673](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14673)

**Authors**: Karthik Mahadevan, Jonathan Chien, Noah Brown, Zhuo Xu, Carolina Parada, Fei Xia, Andy Zeng, Leila Takayama, Dorsa Sadigh

**Published**: 2024-01-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

People employ expressive behaviors to effectively communicate and coordinate
their actions with others, such as nodding to acknowledge a person glancing at
them or saying "excuse me" to pass people in a busy corridor. We would like
robots to also demonstrate expressive behaviors in human-robot interaction.
Prior work proposes rule-based methods that struggle to scale to new
communication modalities or social situations, while data-driven methods
require specialized datasets for each social situation the robot is used in. We
propose to leverage the rich social context available from large language
models (LLMs) and their ability to generate motion based on instructions or
user preferences, to generate expressive robot motion that is adaptable and
composable, building upon each other. Our approach utilizes few-shot
chain-of-thought prompting to translate human language instructions into
parametrized control code using the robot's available and learned skills.
Through user studies and simulation experiments, we demonstrate that our
approach produces behaviors that users found to be competent and easy to
understand. Supplementary material can be found at
https://generative-expressive-motion.github.io/.

---
