# Daily Papers - 2024-01-31

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-31)

Total papers: 14

---

## 1. [Weaver: Foundation Models for Creative Writing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.17268)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.17268](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17268)

**Authors**: Tiannan Wang, Jiamin Chen, Qingrui Jia, Shuai Wang, Ruoyu Fang, Huilin Wang, Zhaowei Gao, Chunzhao Xie, Chuou Xu, Jihong Dai, Yibin Liu, Jialong Wu, Shengwei Ding, Long Li, Zhiwei Huang, Xinle Deng, Teng Yu, Gangan Ma, Han Xiao, Zixin Chen, Danjun Xiang, Yunxia Wang, Yuanyuan Zhu, Yi Xiao, Jing Wang, Yiru Wang, Siran Ding, Jiayang Huang, Jiayi Xu, Yilihamu Tayier, Zhenyu Hu, Yuan Gao, Chengfeng Zheng, Yueshu Ye, Yihang Li, Lei Wan, Xinyue Jiang, Yujie Wang, Siyu Cheng, Zhule Song, Xiangru Tang, Xiaohua Xu, Ningyu Zhang, Huajun Chen, Yuchen Eleanor Jiang, Wangchunshu Zhou

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 45

### Abstract

This work introduces Weaver, our first family of large language models (LLMs)
dedicated to content creation. Weaver is pre-trained on a carefully selected
corpus that focuses on improving the writing capabilities of large language
models. We then fine-tune Weaver for creative and professional writing purposes
and align it to the preference of professional writers using a suit of novel
methods for instruction data synthesis and LLM alignment, making it able to
produce more human-like texts and follow more diverse instructions for content
creation. The Weaver family consists of models of Weaver Mini (1.8B), Weaver
Base (6B), Weaver Pro (14B), and Weaver Ultra (34B) sizes, suitable for
different applications and can be dynamically dispatched by a routing agent
according to query complexity to balance response quality and computation cost.
Evaluation on a carefully curated benchmark for assessing the writing
capabilities of LLMs shows Weaver models of all sizes outperform generalist
LLMs several times larger than them. Notably, our most-capable Weaver Ultra
model surpasses GPT-4, a state-of-the-art generalist LLM, on various writing
scenarios, demonstrating the advantage of training specialized LLMs for writing
purposes. Moreover, Weaver natively supports retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) and function calling (tool usage). We present various use cases of these
abilities for improving AI-assisted writing systems, including integration of
external knowledge bases, tools, or APIs, and providing personalized writing
assistance. Furthermore, we discuss and summarize a guideline and best
practices for pre-training and fine-tuning domain-specific LLMs.

---

## 2. [YOLO-World: Real-Time Open-Vocabulary Object Detection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.17270)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.17270](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17270)

**Authors**: Tianheng Cheng, Lin Song, Yixiao Ge, Wenyu Liu, Xinggang Wang, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 43

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ailab-cvc/yolo-world)

### Abstract

The You Only Look Once (YOLO) series of detectors have established themselves
as efficient and practical tools. However, their reliance on predefined and
trained object categories limits their applicability in open scenarios.
Addressing this limitation, we introduce YOLO-World, an innovative approach
that enhances YOLO with open-vocabulary detection capabilities through
vision-language modeling and pre-training on large-scale datasets.
Specifically, we propose a new Re-parameterizable Vision-Language Path
Aggregation Network (RepVL-PAN) and region-text contrastive loss to facilitate
the interaction between visual and linguistic information. Our method excels in
detecting a wide range of objects in a zero-shot manner with high efficiency.
On the challenging LVIS dataset, YOLO-World achieves 35.4 AP with 52.0 FPS on
V100, which outperforms many state-of-the-art methods in terms of both accuracy
and speed. Furthermore, the fine-tuned YOLO-World achieves remarkable
performance on several downstream tasks, including object detection and
open-vocabulary instance segmentation.

---

## 3. [BlockFusion: Expandable 3D Scene Generation using Latent Tri-plane
  Extrapolation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.17053)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.17053](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17053)

**Authors**: Zhennan Wu, Yang Li, Han Yan, Taizhang Shang, Weixuan Sun, Senbo Wang, Ruikai Cui, Weizhe Liu, Hiroyuki Sato, Hongdong Li, Pan Ji

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Tencent/BlockFusion)

### Abstract

We present BlockFusion, a diffusion-based model that generates 3D scenes as
unit blocks and seamlessly incorporates new blocks to extend the scene.
BlockFusion is trained using datasets of 3D blocks that are randomly cropped
from complete 3D scene meshes. Through per-block fitting, all training blocks
are converted into the hybrid neural fields: with a tri-plane containing the
geometry features, followed by a Multi-layer Perceptron (MLP) for decoding the
signed distance values. A variational auto-encoder is employed to compress the
tri-planes into the latent tri-plane space, on which the denoising diffusion
process is performed. Diffusion applied to the latent representations allows
for high-quality and diverse 3D scene generation. To expand a scene during
generation, one needs only to append empty blocks to overlap with the current
scene and extrapolate existing latent tri-planes to populate new blocks. The
extrapolation is done by conditioning the generation process with the feature
samples from the overlapping tri-planes during the denoising iterations. Latent
tri-plane extrapolation produces semantically and geometrically meaningful
transitions that harmoniously blend with the existing scene. A 2D layout
conditioning mechanism is used to control the placement and arrangement of
scene elements. Experimental results indicate that BlockFusion is capable of
generating diverse, geometrically consistent and unbounded large 3D scenes with
unprecedented high-quality shapes in both indoor and outdoor scenarios.

---

## 4. [StrokeNUWA: Tokenizing Strokes for Vector Graphic Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.17093)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.17093](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17093)

**Authors**: Zecheng Tang, Chenfei Wu, Zekai Zhang, Mingheng Ni, Shengming Yin, Yu Liu, Zhengyuan Yang, Lijuan Wang, Zicheng Liu, Juntao Li, Nan Duan

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

To leverage LLMs for visual synthesis, traditional methods convert raster
image information into discrete grid tokens through specialized visual modules,
while disrupting the model's ability to capture the true semantic
representation of visual scenes. This paper posits that an alternative
representation of images, vector graphics, can effectively surmount this
limitation by enabling a more natural and semantically coherent segmentation of
the image information. Thus, we introduce StrokeNUWA, a pioneering work
exploring a better visual representation ''stroke tokens'' on vector graphics,
which is inherently visual semantics rich, naturally compatible with LLMs, and
highly compressed. Equipped with stroke tokens, StrokeNUWA can significantly
surpass traditional LLM-based and optimization-based methods across various
metrics in the vector graphic generation task. Besides, StrokeNUWA achieves up
to a 94x speedup in inference over the speed of prior methods with an
exceptional SVG code compression ratio of 6.9%.

---

## 5. [Proactive Detection of Voice Cloning with Localized Watermarking](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.17264)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.17264](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17264)

**Authors**: Robin San Roman, Pierre Fernandez, Alexandre Défossez, Teddy Furon, Tuan Tran, Hady Elsahar

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/audioseal)

### Abstract

In the rapidly evolving field of speech generative models, there is a
pressing need to ensure audio authenticity against the risks of voice cloning.
We present AudioSeal, the first audio watermarking technique designed
specifically for localized detection of AI-generated speech. AudioSeal employs
a generator/detector architecture trained jointly with a localization loss to
enable localized watermark detection up to the sample level, and a novel
perceptual loss inspired by auditory masking, that enables AudioSeal to achieve
better imperceptibility. AudioSeal achieves state-of-the-art performance in
terms of robustness to real life audio manipulations and imperceptibility based
on automatic and human evaluation metrics. Additionally, AudioSeal is designed
with a fast, single-pass detector, that significantly surpasses existing models
in speed - achieving detection up to two orders of magnitude faster, making it
ideal for large-scale and real-time applications.

---

## 6. [H2O-Danube-1.8B Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16818)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16818](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16818)

**Authors**: Philipp Singer, Pascal Pfeiffer, Maximilian Jeblick, Nischay Dhankhar, Gabor Fodor, Sri Satish Ambati

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

We present H2O-Danube-1.8B, a 1.8B language model trained on 1T tokens
following the core principles of LLama 2 and Mistral. We leverage and refine
various techniques for pre-training large language models. Although our model
is trained on significantly fewer total tokens compared to reference models of
similar size, it exhibits highly competitive metrics across a multitude of
benchmarks. We additionally release a chat model trained with supervised
fine-tuning followed by direct preference optimization. We make H2O-Danube-1.8B
openly available under Apache 2.0 license further democratizing LLMs to a wider
audience economically.

---

## 7. [Transfer Learning for Text Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.17181)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.17181](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17181)

**Authors**: Kehang Han, Kathleen Kenealy, Aditya Barua, Noah Fiedel, Noah Constant

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

In this report, we explore the potential for text diffusion to replace
autoregressive (AR) decoding for the training and deployment of large language
models (LLMs). We are particularly interested to see whether pretrained AR
models can be transformed into text diffusion models through a lightweight
adaptation procedure we call ``AR2Diff''. We begin by establishing a strong
baseline setup for training text diffusion models. Comparing across multiple
architectures and pretraining objectives, we find that training a decoder-only
model with a prefix LM objective is best or near-best across several tasks.
Building on this finding, we test various transfer learning setups for text
diffusion models. On machine translation, we find that text diffusion
underperforms the standard AR approach. However, on code synthesis and
extractive QA, we find diffusion models trained from scratch outperform AR
models in many cases. We also observe quality gains from AR2Diff -- adapting AR
models to use diffusion decoding. These results are promising given that text
diffusion is relatively underexplored and can be significantly faster than AR
decoding for long text generation.

---

## 8. [Weak-to-Strong Jailbreaking on Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.17256)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.17256](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17256)

**Authors**: Xuandong Zhao, Xianjun Yang, Tianyu Pang, Chao Du, Lei Li, Yu-Xiang Wang, William Yang Wang

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/xuandongzhao/weak-to-strong)

### Abstract

Although significant efforts have been dedicated to aligning large language
models (LLMs), red-teaming reports suggest that these carefully aligned LLMs
could still be jailbroken through adversarial prompts, tuning, or decoding.
Upon examining the jailbreaking vulnerability of aligned LLMs, we observe that
the decoding distributions of jailbroken and aligned models differ only in the
initial generations. This observation motivates us to propose the
weak-to-strong jailbreaking attack, where adversaries can utilize smaller
unsafe/aligned LLMs (e.g., 7B) to guide jailbreaking against significantly
larger aligned LLMs (e.g., 70B). To jailbreak, one only needs to additionally
decode two smaller LLMs once, which involves minimal computation and latency
compared to decoding the larger LLMs. The efficacy of this attack is
demonstrated through experiments conducted on five models from three different
organizations. Our study reveals a previously unnoticed yet efficient way of
jailbreaking, exposing an urgent safety issue that needs to be considered when
aligning LLMs. As an initial attempt, we propose a defense strategy to protect
against such attacks, but creating more advanced defenses remains challenging.
The code for replicating the method is available at
https://github.com/XuandongZhao/weak-to-strong

---

## 9. [High-Quality Image Restoration Following Human Instructions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16468)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16468](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16468)

**Authors**: Marcos V. Conde, Gregor Geigle, Radu Timofte

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mv-lab/InstructIR)

### Abstract

Image restoration is a fundamental problem that involves recovering a
high-quality clean image from its degraded observation. All-In-One image
restoration models can effectively restore images from various types and levels
of degradation using degradation-specific information as prompts to guide the
restoration model. In this work, we present the first approach that uses
human-written instructions to guide the image restoration model. Given natural
language prompts, our model can recover high-quality images from their degraded
counterparts, considering multiple degradation types. Our method, InstructIR,
achieves state-of-the-art results on several restoration tasks including image
denoising, deraining, deblurring, dehazing, and (low-light) image enhancement.
InstructIR improves +1dB over previous all-in-one restoration methods.
Moreover, our dataset and results represent a novel benchmark for new research
on text-guided image restoration and enhancement. Our code, datasets and models
are available at: https://github.com/mv-lab/InstructIR

---

## 10. [Repositioning the Subject within Image](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16861)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16861](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16861)

**Authors**: Yikai Wang, Chenjie Cao, Qiaole Dong, Yifan Li, Yanwei Fu

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yikai-wang/res)

### Abstract

Current image manipulation primarily centers on static manipulation, such as
replacing specific regions within an image or altering its overall style. In
this paper, we introduce an innovative dynamic manipulation task, subject
repositioning. This task involves relocating a user-specified subject to a
desired position while preserving the image's fidelity. Our research reveals
that the fundamental sub-tasks of subject repositioning, which include filling
the void left by the repositioned subject, reconstructing obscured portions of
the subject and blending the subject to be consistent with surrounding areas,
can be effectively reformulated as a unified, prompt-guided inpainting task.
Consequently, we can employ a single diffusion generative model to address
these sub-tasks using various task prompts learned through our proposed task
inversion technique. Additionally, we integrate pre-processing and
post-processing techniques to further enhance the quality of subject
repositioning. These elements together form our SEgment-gEnerate-and-bLEnd
(SEELE) framework. To assess SEELE's effectiveness in subject repositioning, we
assemble a real-world subject repositioning dataset called ReS. Our results on
ReS demonstrate the quality of repositioned image generation.

---

## 11. [OWSM v3.1: Better and Faster Open Whisper-Style Speech Models based on
  E-Branchformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16658)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16658](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16658)

**Authors**: Yifan Peng, Jinchuan Tian, William Chen, Siddhant Arora, Brian Yan, Yui Sudo, Muhammad Shakeel, Kwanghee Choi, Jiatong Shi, Xuankai Chang, Jee-weon Jung, Shinji Watanabe

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Recent studies have advocated for fully open foundation models to promote
transparency and open science. As an initial step, the Open Whisper-style
Speech Model (OWSM) reproduced OpenAI's Whisper using publicly available data
and open-source toolkits. With the aim of reproducing Whisper, the previous
OWSM v1 through v3 models were still based on Transformer, which might lead to
inferior performance compared to other state-of-the-art speech encoders. In
this work, we aim to improve the performance and efficiency of OWSM without
extra training data. We present E-Branchformer based OWSM v3.1 models at two
scales, i.e., 100M and 1B. The 1B model is the largest E-Branchformer based
speech model that has been made publicly available. It outperforms the previous
OWSM v3 in a vast majority of evaluation benchmarks, while demonstrating up to
25% faster inference speed. We publicly release the data preparation scripts,
pre-trained models and training logs.

---

## 12. [ReGAL: Refactoring Programs to Discover Generalizable Abstractions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16467)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16467](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16467)

**Authors**: Elias Stengel-Eskin, Archiki Prasad, Mohit Bansal

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/esteng/regal_program_learning)

### Abstract

While large language models (LLMs) are increasingly being used for program
synthesis, they lack the global view needed to develop useful abstractions;
they generally predict programs one at a time, often repeating the same
functionality. Generating redundant code from scratch is both inefficient and
error-prone. To address this, we propose Refactoring for Generalizable
Abstraction Learning (ReGAL), a gradient-free method for learning a library of
reusable functions via code refactorization, i.e. restructuring code without
changing its execution output. ReGAL learns from a small set of existing
programs, iteratively verifying and refining its abstractions via execution. We
find that the shared function libraries discovered by ReGAL make programs
easier to predict across diverse domains. On three datasets (LOGO graphics
generation, Date reasoning, and TextCraft, a Minecraft-based text game), both
open-source and proprietary LLMs improve in accuracy when predicting programs
with ReGAL functions. For CodeLlama-13B, ReGAL results in absolute accuracy
increases of 11.5% on graphics, 26.1% on date understanding, and 8.1% on
TextCraft, outperforming GPT-3.5 in two of three domains. Our analysis reveals
ReGAL's abstractions encapsulate frequently-used subroutines as well as
environment dynamics.

---

## 13. [MouSi: Poly-Visual-Expert Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.17221)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.17221](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17221)

**Authors**: Xiaoran Fan, Tao Ji, Changhao Jiang, Shuo Li, Senjie Jin, Sirui Song, Junke Wang, Boyang Hong, Lu Chen, Guodong Zheng, Ming Zhang, Caishuang Huang, Rui Zheng, Zhiheng Xi, Shihan Dou, Junjie Ye, Hang Yan, Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, Xipeng Qiu, Xuanjing Huang, Zuxuan Wu, Yu-Gang Jiang

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/fudannlplab/mousi)

### Abstract

Current large vision-language models (VLMs) often encounter challenges such
as insufficient capabilities of a single visual component and excessively long
visual tokens. These issues can limit the model's effectiveness in accurately
interpreting complex visual information and over-lengthy contextual
information. Addressing these challenges is crucial for enhancing the
performance and applicability of VLMs. This paper proposes the use of ensemble
experts technique to synergizes the capabilities of individual visual encoders,
including those skilled in image-text matching, OCR, image segmentation, etc.
This technique introduces a fusion network to unify the processing of outputs
from different visual experts, while bridging the gap between image encoders
and pre-trained LLMs. In addition, we explore different positional encoding
schemes to alleviate the waste of positional encoding caused by lengthy image
feature sequences, effectively addressing the issue of position overflow and
length limitations. For instance, in our implementation, this technique
significantly reduces the positional occupancy in models like SAM, from a
substantial 4096 to a more efficient and manageable 64 or even down to 1.
Experimental results demonstrate that VLMs with multiple experts exhibit
consistently superior performance over isolated visual encoders and mark a
significant performance boost as more experts are integrated. We have
open-sourced the training code used in this report. All of these resources can
be found on our project website.

---

## 14. [T3: Transparent Tracking & Triggering for Fine-grained Overlap of
  Compute & Collectives](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16677)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16677](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16677)

**Authors**: Suchita Pati, Shaizeen Aga, Mahzabeen Islam, Nuwan Jayasena, Matthew D. Sinclair

**Published**: 2024-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Large Language Models increasingly rely on distributed techniques for their
training and inference. These techniques require communication across devices
which can reduce scaling efficiency as the number of devices increases. While
some distributed techniques can overlap, and thus, hide this communication with
independent computations, techniques such as Tensor Parallelism (TP) inherently
serialize communication with model execution. One approach to hide this
serialized communication is to interleave it with the producer operation (of
the communicated data) in a fine-grained manner. However, this fine-grained
interleaving of communication and computation in software can be difficult.
Furthermore, as with any concurrent execution, it requires compute and memory
resources to be shared between computation and communication, causing resource
contention that reduces overlapping efficacy.
  To overcome these challenges, we propose T3 which applies hardware-software
co-design to transparently overlap serialized communication while minimizing
resource contention with compute. T3 transparently fuses producer operations
with the subsequent communication via a simple configuration of the producer's
output address space and requires minor software changes. At the hardware
level, T3 adds a lightweight track and trigger mechanism to orchestrate the
producer's compute, and communication. It further uses compute-enhanced
memories for communication's attendant compute. As a result, T3 reduces
resource contention, and efficiently overlaps serialized communication with
computation. For important Transformer models like T-NLG, T3 speeds up
communication-heavy sublayers by 30% geomean (max 47%) and reduces data
movement by 22% geomean (max 36%). Furthermore, T3's benefits persist as models
scale: geomean 29% for sublayers in sim500-billion parameter models, PALM
and MT-NLG.

---
