# Daily Papers - 2024-01-04

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-04)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [aMUSEd: An Open MUSE Reproduction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01808)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01808](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01808)

**Authors**: Suraj Patil, William Berman, Robin Rombach, Patrick von Platen

**Published**: 2024-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

### Abstract

We present aMUSEd, an open-source, lightweight masked image model (MIM) for
text-to-image generation based on MUSE. With 10 percent of MUSE's parameters,
aMUSEd is focused on fast image generation. We believe MIM is under-explored
compared to latent diffusion, the prevailing approach for text-to-image
generation. Compared to latent diffusion, MIM requires fewer inference steps
and is more interpretable. Additionally, MIM can be fine-tuned to learn
additional styles with only a single image. We hope to encourage further
exploration of MIM by demonstrating its effectiveness on large-scale
text-to-image generation and releasing reproducible training code. We also
release checkpoints for two models which directly produce images at 256x256 and
512x512 resolutions.

---

## 2. [From Audio to Photoreal Embodiment: Synthesizing Humans in Conversations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01885)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01885](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01885)

**Authors**: Evonne Ng, Javier Romero, Timur Bagautdinov, Shaojie Bai, Trevor Darrell, Angjoo Kanazawa, Alexander Richard

**Published**: 2024-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/audio2photoreal)

### Abstract

We present a framework for generating full-bodied photorealistic avatars that
gesture according to the conversational dynamics of a dyadic interaction. Given
speech audio, we output multiple possibilities of gestural motion for an
individual, including face, body, and hands. The key behind our method is in
combining the benefits of sample diversity from vector quantization with the
high-frequency details obtained through diffusion to generate more dynamic,
expressive motion. We visualize the generated motion using highly
photorealistic avatars that can express crucial nuances in gestures (e.g.
sneers and smirks). To facilitate this line of research, we introduce a
first-of-its-kind multi-view conversational dataset that allows for
photorealistic reconstruction. Experiments show our model generates appropriate
and diverse gestures, outperforming both diffusion- and VQ-only methods.
Furthermore, our perceptual evaluation highlights the importance of
photorealism (vs. meshes) in accurately assessing subtle motion details in
conversational gestures. Code and dataset available online.

---

## 3. [Image Sculpting: Precise Object Editing with 3D Geometry Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01702)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01702](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01702)

**Authors**: Jiraphon Yenphraphai, Xichen Pan, Sainan Liu, Daniele Panozzo, Saining Xie

**Published**: 2024-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

We present Image Sculpting, a new framework for editing 2D images by
incorporating tools from 3D geometry and graphics. This approach differs
markedly from existing methods, which are confined to 2D spaces and typically
rely on textual instructions, leading to ambiguity and limited control. Image
Sculpting converts 2D objects into 3D, enabling direct interaction with their
3D geometry. Post-editing, these objects are re-rendered into 2D, merging into
the original image to produce high-fidelity results through a coarse-to-fine
enhancement process. The framework supports precise, quantifiable, and
physically-plausible editing options such as pose editing, rotation,
translation, 3D composition, carving, and serial addition. It marks an initial
step towards combining the creative freedom of generative models with the
precision of graphics pipelines.

---

## 4. [SIGNeRF: Scene Integrated Generation for Neural Radiance Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01647)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01647](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01647)

**Authors**: Jan-Niklas Dihlmann, Andreas Engelhardt, Hendrik Lensch

**Published**: 2024-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Advances in image diffusion models have recently led to notable improvements
in the generation of high-quality images. In combination with Neural Radiance
Fields (NeRFs), they enabled new opportunities in 3D generation. However, most
generative 3D approaches are object-centric and applying them to editing
existing photorealistic scenes is not trivial. We propose SIGNeRF, a novel
approach for fast and controllable NeRF scene editing and scene-integrated
object generation. A new generative update strategy ensures 3D consistency
across the edited images, without requiring iterative optimization. We find
that depth-conditioned diffusion models inherently possess the capability to
generate 3D consistent views by requesting a grid of images instead of single
views. Based on these insights, we introduce a multi-view reference sheet of
modified images. Our method updates an image collection consistently based on
the reference sheet and refines the original NeRF with the newly generated
image set in one go. By exploiting the depth conditioning mechanism of the
image diffusion model, we gain fine control over the spatial location of the
edit and enforce shape guidance by a selected region or an external mesh.

---

## 5. [CoMoSVC: Consistency Model-based Singing Voice Conversion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01792)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01792](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01792)

**Authors**: Yiwen Lu, Zhen Ye, Xu Tan, Qifeng Liu, Yike Guo

**Published**: 2024-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/grace9994/comosvc)

### Abstract

The diffusion-based Singing Voice Conversion (SVC) methods have achieved
remarkable performances, producing natural audios with high similarity to the
target timbre. However, the iterative sampling process results in slow
inference speed, and acceleration thus becomes crucial. In this paper, we
propose CoMoSVC, a consistency model-based SVC method, which aims to achieve
both high-quality generation and high-speed sampling. A diffusion-based teacher
model is first specially designed for SVC, and a student model is further
distilled under self-consistency properties to achieve one-step sampling.
Experiments on a single NVIDIA GTX4090 GPU reveal that although CoMoSVC has a
significantly faster inference speed than the state-of-the-art (SOTA)
diffusion-based SVC system, it still achieves comparable or superior conversion
performance based on both subjective and objective metrics. Audio samples and
codes are available at https://comosvc.github.io/.

---

## 6. [Incremental FastPitch: Chunk-based High Quality Text to Speech](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01755)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01755](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01755)

**Authors**: Muyang Du, Chuan Liu, Junjie Lai

**Published**: 2024-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Parallel text-to-speech models have been widely applied for real-time speech
synthesis, and they offer more controllability and a much faster synthesis
process compared with conventional auto-regressive models. Although parallel
models have benefits in many aspects, they become naturally unfit for
incremental synthesis due to their fully parallel architecture such as
transformer. In this work, we propose Incremental FastPitch, a novel FastPitch
variant capable of incrementally producing high-quality Mel chunks by improving
the architecture with chunk-based FFT blocks, training with receptive-field
constrained chunk attention masks, and inference with fixed size past model
states. Experimental results show that our proposal can produce speech quality
comparable to the parallel FastPitch, with a significant lower latency that
allows even lower response time for real-time speech applications.

---

## 7. [Efficient Hybrid Zoom using Camera Fusion on Mobile Phones](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01461)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01461](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01461)

**Authors**: Xiaotong Wu, Wei-Sheng Lai, YiChang Shih, Charles Herrmann, Michael Krainin, Deqing Sun, Chia-Kai Liang

**Published**: 2024-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

DSLR cameras can achieve multiple zoom levels via shifting lens distances or
swapping lens types. However, these techniques are not possible on smartphone
devices due to space constraints. Most smartphone manufacturers adopt a hybrid
zoom system: commonly a Wide (W) camera at a low zoom level and a Telephoto (T)
camera at a high zoom level. To simulate zoom levels between W and T, these
systems crop and digitally upsample images from W, leading to significant
detail loss. In this paper, we propose an efficient system for hybrid zoom
super-resolution on mobile devices, which captures a synchronous pair of W and
T shots and leverages machine learning models to align and transfer details
from T to W. We further develop an adaptive blending method that accounts for
depth-of-field mismatches, scene occlusion, flow uncertainty, and alignment
errors. To minimize the domain gap, we design a dual-phone camera rig to
capture real-world inputs and ground-truths for supervised training. Our method
generates a 12-megapixel image in 500ms on a mobile platform and compares
favorably against state-of-the-art methods under extensive evaluation on
real-world scenarios.

---
