# Daily Papers - 2024-01-03

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-03)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [GPT-4V(ision) is a Generalist Web Agent, if Grounded](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01614)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01614](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01614)

**Authors**: Boyuan Zheng, Boyu Gou, Jihyung Kil, Huan Sun, Yu Su

**Published**: 2024-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/osu-nlp-group/seeact)

### Abstract

The recent development on large multimodal models (LMMs), especially
GPT-4V(ision) and Gemini, has been quickly expanding the capability boundaries
of multimodal models beyond traditional tasks like image captioning and visual
question answering. In this work, we explore the potential of LMMs like GPT-4V
as a generalist web agent that can follow natural language instructions to
complete tasks on any given website. We propose SEEACT, a generalist web agent
that harnesses the power of LMMs for integrated visual understanding and acting
on the web. We evaluate on the recent MIND2WEB benchmark. In addition to
standard offline evaluation on cached websites, we enable a new online
evaluation setting by developing a tool that allows running web agents on live
websites. We show that GPT-4V presents a great potential for web agents - it
can successfully complete 50% of the tasks on live websites if we manually
ground its textual plans into actions on the websites. This substantially
outperforms text-only LLMs like GPT-4 or smaller models (FLAN-T5 and BLIP-2)
specifically fine-tuned for web agents. However, grounding still remains a
major challenge. Existing LMM grounding strategies like set-of-mark prompting
turns out not effective for web agents, and the best grounding strategy we
develop in this paper leverages both the HTML text and visuals. Yet, there is
still a substantial gap with oracle grounding, leaving ample room for further
improvement.

---

## 2. [Moonshot: Towards Controllable Video Generation and Editing with
  Multimodal Conditions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01827)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01827](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01827)

**Authors**: David Junhao Zhang, Dongxu Li, Hung Le, Mike Zheng Shou, Caiming Xiong, Doyen Sahoo

**Published**: 2024-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/salesforce/lavis)

### Abstract

Most existing video diffusion models (VDMs) are limited to mere text
conditions. Thereby, they are usually lacking in control over visual appearance
and geometry structure of the generated videos. This work presents Moonshot, a
new video generation model that conditions simultaneously on multimodal inputs
of image and text. The model builts upon a core module, called multimodal video
block (MVB), which consists of conventional spatialtemporal layers for
representing video features, and a decoupled cross-attention layer to address
image and text inputs for appearance conditioning. In addition, we carefully
design the model architecture such that it can optionally integrate with
pre-trained image ControlNet modules for geometry visual conditions, without
needing of extra training overhead as opposed to prior methods. Experiments
show that with versatile multimodal conditioning mechanisms, Moonshot
demonstrates significant improvement on visual quality and temporal consistency
compared to existing models. In addition, the model can be easily repurposed
for a variety of generative applications, such as personalized video
generation, image animation and video editing, unveiling its potential to serve
as a fundamental architecture for controllable video generation. Models will be
made public on https://github.com/salesforce/LAVIS.

---

## 3. [Boundary Attention: Learning to Find Faint Boundaries at Any Resolution](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.00935)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.00935](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00935)

**Authors**: Mia Gaia Polansky, Charles Herrmann, Junhwa Hur, Deqing Sun, Dor Verbin, Todd Zickler

**Published**: 2024-01-01 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

We present a differentiable model that explicitly models boundaries --
including contours, corners and junctions -- using a new mechanism that we call
boundary attention. We show that our model provides accurate results even when
the boundary signal is very weak or is swamped by noise. Compared to previous
classical methods for finding faint boundaries, our model has the advantages of
being differentiable; being scalable to larger images; and automatically
adapting to an appropriate level of geometric detail in each part of an image.
Compared to previous deep methods for finding boundaries via end-to-end
training, it has the advantages of providing sub-pixel precision, being more
resilient to noise, and being able to process any image at its native
resolution and aspect ratio.

---

## 4. [En3D: An Enhanced Generative Model for Sculpting 3D Humans from 2D
  Synthetic Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01173)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01173](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01173)

**Authors**: Yifang Men, Biwen Lei, Yuan Yao, Miaomiao Cui, Zhouhui Lian, Xuansong Xie

**Published**: 2024-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

We present En3D, an enhanced generative scheme for sculpting high-quality 3D
human avatars. Unlike previous works that rely on scarce 3D datasets or limited
2D collections with imbalanced viewing angles and imprecise pose priors, our
approach aims to develop a zero-shot 3D generative scheme capable of producing
visually realistic, geometrically accurate and content-wise diverse 3D humans
without relying on pre-existing 3D or 2D assets. To address this challenge, we
introduce a meticulously crafted workflow that implements accurate physical
modeling to learn the enhanced 3D generative model from synthetic 2D data.
During inference, we integrate optimization modules to bridge the gap between
realistic appearances and coarse 3D shapes. Specifically, En3D comprises three
modules: a 3D generator that accurately models generalizable 3D humans with
realistic appearance from synthesized balanced, diverse, and structured human
images; a geometry sculptor that enhances shape quality using multi-view normal
constraints for intricate human anatomy; and a texturing module that
disentangles explicit texture maps with fidelity and editability, leveraging
semantical UV partitioning and a differentiable rasterizer. Experimental
results show that our approach significantly outperforms prior works in terms
of image quality, geometry accuracy and content diversity. We also showcase the
applicability of our generated avatars for animation and editing, as well as
the scalability of our approach for content-style free adaptation.

---

## 5. [A Vision Check-up for Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01862)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01862](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01862)

**Authors**: Pratyusha Sharma, Tamar Rott Shaham, Manel Baradad, Stephanie Fu, Adrian Rodriguez-Munoz, Shivam Duggal, Phillip Isola, Antonio Torralba

**Published**: 2024-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

What does learning to model relationships between strings teach large
language models (LLMs) about the visual world? We systematically evaluate LLMs'
abilities to generate and recognize an assortment of visual concepts of
increasing complexity and then demonstrate how a preliminary visual
representation learning system can be trained using models of text. As language
models lack the ability to consume or output visual information as pixels, we
use code to represent images in our study. Although LLM-generated images do not
look like natural images, results on image generation and the ability of models
to correct these generated images indicate that precise modeling of strings can
teach language models about numerous aspects of the visual world. Furthermore,
experiments on self-supervised visual representation learning, utilizing images
generated with text models, highlight the potential to train vision models
capable of making semantic assessments of natural images using just LLMs.

---

## 6. [Multilingual Instruction Tuning With Just a Pinch of Multilinguality](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01854)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01854](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01854)

**Authors**: Uri Shaham, Jonathan Herzig, Roee Aharoni, Idan Szpektor, Reut Tsarfaty, Matan Eyal

**Published**: 2024-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

As instruction-tuned large language models (LLMs) gain global adoption, their
ability to follow instructions in multiple languages becomes increasingly
crucial. One promising approach is cross-lingual transfer, where a model
acquires specific functionality on some language by finetuning on another
language. In this work, we investigate how multilinguality during instruction
tuning of a multilingual LLM affects instruction-following across languages. We
first show that many languages transfer some instruction-following capabilities
to other languages from even monolingual tuning. Furthermore, we find that only
40 multilingual examples in an English tuning set substantially improve
multilingual instruction-following, both in seen and unseen languages during
tuning. In general, we observe that models tuned on multilingual mixtures
exhibit comparable or superior performance in several languages compared to
monolingually tuned models, despite training on 10x fewer examples in those
languages. Finally, we find that increasing the number of languages in the
instruction tuning set from 1 to only 2, 3, or 4 increases cross-lingual
generalization. Our results suggest that building massively multilingual
instruction-tuned models can be done with only a very small set of multilingual
instruction-responses.

---

## 7. [Taming Mode Collapse in Score Distillation for Text-to-3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.00909)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.00909](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00909)

**Authors**: Peihao Wang, Dejia Xu, Zhiwen Fan, Dilin Wang, Sreyas Mohan, Forrest Iandola, Rakesh Ranjan, Yilei Li, Qiang Liu, Zhangyang Wang, Vikas Chandra

**Published**: 2023-12-31 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Despite the remarkable performance of score distillation in text-to-3D
generation, such techniques notoriously suffer from view inconsistency issues,
also known as "Janus" artifact, where the generated objects fake each view with
multiple front faces. Although empirically effective methods have approached
this problem via score debiasing or prompt engineering, a more rigorous
perspective to explain and tackle this problem remains elusive. In this paper,
we reveal that the existing score distillation-based text-to-3D generation
frameworks degenerate to maximal likelihood seeking on each view independently
and thus suffer from the mode collapse problem, manifesting as the Janus
artifact in practice. To tame mode collapse, we improve score distillation by
re-establishing in entropy term in the corresponding variational objective,
which is applied to the distribution of rendered images. Maximizing the entropy
encourages diversity among different views in generated 3D assets, thereby
mitigating the Janus problem. Based on this new objective, we derive a new
update rule for 3D score distillation, dubbed Entropic Score Distillation
(ESD). We theoretically reveal that ESD can be simplified and implemented by
just adopting the classifier-free guidance trick upon variational score
distillation. Although embarrassingly straightforward, our extensive
experiments successfully demonstrate that ESD can be an effective treatment for
Janus artifacts in score distillation.

---

## 8. [WordArt Designer API: User-Driven Artistic Typography Synthesis with
  Large Language Models on ModelScope](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.01699)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.01699](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01699)

**Authors**: Jun-Yan He, Zhi-Qi Cheng, Chenyang Li, Jingdong Sun, Wangmeng Xiang, Yusen Hu, Xianhui Lin, Xiaoyang Kang, Zengke Jin, Bin Luo, Yifeng Geng, Xuansong Xie, Jingren Zhou

**Published**: 2024-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

This paper introduces the WordArt Designer API, a novel framework for
user-driven artistic typography synthesis utilizing Large Language Models
(LLMs) on ModelScope. We address the challenge of simplifying artistic
typography for non-professionals by offering a dynamic, adaptive, and
computationally efficient alternative to traditional rigid templates. Our
approach leverages the power of LLMs to understand and interpret user input,
facilitating a more intuitive design process. We demonstrate through various
case studies how users can articulate their aesthetic preferences and
functional requirements, which the system then translates into unique and
creative typographic designs. Our evaluations indicate significant improvements
in user satisfaction, design flexibility, and creative expression over existing
systems. The WordArt Designer API not only democratizes the art of typography
but also opens up new possibilities for personalized digital communication and
design.

---
