# Daily Papers - 2024-01-25

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-25)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [Scaling Up to Excellence: Practicing Model Scaling for Photo-Realistic
  Image Restoration In the Wild](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.13627)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.13627](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13627)

**Authors**: Fanghua Yu, Jinjin Gu, Zheyuan Li, Jinfan Hu, Xiangtao Kong, Xintao Wang, Jingwen He, Yu Qiao, Chao Dong

**Published**: 2024-01-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 78

### Abstract

We introduce SUPIR (Scaling-UP Image Restoration), a groundbreaking image
restoration method that harnesses generative prior and the power of model
scaling up. Leveraging multi-modal techniques and advanced generative prior,
SUPIR marks a significant advance in intelligent and realistic image
restoration. As a pivotal catalyst within SUPIR, model scaling dramatically
enhances its capabilities and demonstrates new potential for image restoration.
We collect a dataset comprising 20 million high-resolution, high-quality images
for model training, each enriched with descriptive text annotations. SUPIR
provides the capability to restore images guided by textual prompts, broadening
its application scope and potential. Moreover, we introduce negative-quality
prompts to further improve perceptual quality. We also develop a
restoration-guided sampling method to suppress the fidelity issue encountered
in generative-based restoration. Experiments demonstrate SUPIR's exceptional
restoration effects and its novel capacity to manipulate restoration through
textual prompts.

---

## 2. [MambaByte: Token-free Selective State Space Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.13660)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.13660](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13660)

**Authors**: Junxiong Wang, Tushaar Gangavarapu, Jing Nathan Yan, Alexander M Rush

**Published**: 2024-01-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 60

### Abstract

Token-free language models learn directly from raw bytes and remove the bias
of subword tokenization. Operating on bytes, however, results in significantly
longer sequences, and standard autoregressive Transformers scale poorly in such
settings. We experiment with MambaByte, a token-free adaptation of the Mamba
state space model, trained autoregressively on byte sequences. Our experiments
indicate the computational efficiency of MambaByte compared to other byte-level
models. We also find MambaByte to be competitive with and even outperform
state-of-the-art subword Transformers. Furthermore, owing to linear scaling in
length, MambaByte benefits from fast inference compared to Transformers. Our
findings establish the viability of MambaByte in enabling token-free language
modeling.

---

## 3. [MM-LLMs: Recent Advances in MultiModal Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.13601)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.13601](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13601)

**Authors**: Duzhen Zhang, Yahan Yu, Chenxing Li, Jiahua Dong, Dan Su, Chenhui Chu, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2024-01-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 48

### Abstract

In the past year, MultiModal Large Language Models (MM-LLMs) have undergone
substantial advancements, augmenting off-the-shelf LLMs to support MM inputs or
outputs via cost-effective training strategies. The resulting models not only
preserve the inherent reasoning and decision-making capabilities of LLMs but
also empower a diverse range of MM tasks. In this paper, we provide a
comprehensive survey aimed at facilitating further research of MM-LLMs.
Specifically, we first outline general design formulations for model
architecture and training pipeline. Subsequently, we provide brief
introductions of 26 existing MM-LLMs, each characterized by its specific
formulations. Additionally, we review the performance of MM-LLMs on mainstream
benchmarks and summarize key training recipes to enhance the potency of
MM-LLMs. Lastly, we explore promising directions for MM-LLMs while concurrently
maintaining a real-time tracking website for the latest developments in the
field. We hope that this survey contributes to the ongoing advancement of the
MM-LLMs domain.

---

## 4. [WebVoyager: Building an End-to-End Web Agent with Large Multimodal
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.13919)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.13919](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13919)

**Authors**: Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Yong Dai, Hongming Zhang, Zhenzhong Lan, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/minorjerry/webvoyager)

### Abstract

The advancement of large language models (LLMs) leads to a new era marked by
the development of autonomous applications in the real world, which drives
innovation in the creation of advanced web-based agents. Existing web agents
typically only handle one input modality and are evaluated only in simplified
web simulators or static web snapshots, greatly limiting their applicability in
real-world scenarios. To bridge this gap, we introduce WebVoyager, an
innovative Large Multimodal Model (LMM) powered web agent that can complete
user instructions end-to-end by interacting with real-world websites. Moreover,
we propose a new evaluation protocol for web agents to address the challenges
of automatic evaluation of open-ended web agent tasks, leveraging the robust
multimodal comprehension capabilities of GPT-4V. We create a new benchmark by
gathering real-world tasks from 15 widely used websites to evaluate our agents.
We show that WebVoyager achieves a 55.7% task success rate, significantly
surpassing the performance of both GPT-4 (All Tools) and the WebVoyager
(text-only) setups, underscoring the exceptional capability of WebVoyager in
practical applications. We found that our proposed automatic evaluation
achieves 85.3% agreement with human judgment, paving the way for further
development of web agents in a real-world setting.

---

## 5. [BootPIG: Bootstrapping Zero-shot Personalized Image Generation
  Capabilities in Pretrained Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.13974)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.13974](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13974)

**Authors**: Senthil Purushwalkam, Akash Gokul, Shafiq Joty, Nikhil Naik

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SalesforceAIResearch/bootpig)

### Abstract

Recent text-to-image generation models have demonstrated incredible success
in generating images that faithfully follow input prompts. However, the
requirement of using words to describe a desired concept provides limited
control over the appearance of the generated concepts. In this work, we address
this shortcoming by proposing an approach to enable personalization
capabilities in existing text-to-image diffusion models. We propose a novel
architecture (BootPIG) that allows a user to provide reference images of an
object in order to guide the appearance of a concept in the generated images.
  The proposed BootPIG architecture makes minimal modifications to a pretrained
text-to-image diffusion model and utilizes a separate UNet model to steer the
generations toward the desired appearance. We introduce a training procedure
that allows us to bootstrap personalization capabilities in the BootPIG
architecture using data generated from pretrained text-to-image models, LLM
chat agents, and image segmentation models. In contrast to existing methods
that require several days of pretraining, the BootPIG architecture can be
trained in approximately 1 hour. Experiments on the DreamBooth dataset
demonstrate that BootPIG outperforms existing zero-shot methods while being
comparable with test-time finetuning approaches. Through a user study, we
validate the preference for BootPIG generations over existing methods both in
maintaining fidelity to the reference object's appearance and aligning with
textual prompts.

---

## 6. [UNIMO-G: Unified Image Generation through Multimodal Conditional
  Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.13388)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.13388](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13388)

**Authors**: Wei Li, Xue Xu, Jiachen Liu, Xinyan Xiao

**Published**: 2024-01-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Existing text-to-image diffusion models primarily generate images from text
prompts. However, the inherent conciseness of textual descriptions poses
challenges in faithfully synthesizing images with intricate details, such as
specific entities or scenes. This paper presents UNIMO-G, a simple
multimodal conditional diffusion framework that operates on multimodal prompts
with interleaved textual and visual inputs, which demonstrates a unified
ability for both text-driven and subject-driven image generation. UNIMO-G
comprises two core components: a Multimodal Large Language Model (MLLM) for
encoding multimodal prompts, and a conditional denoising diffusion network for
generating images based on the encoded multimodal input. We leverage a
two-stage training strategy to effectively train the framework: firstly
pre-training on large-scale text-image pairs to develop conditional image
generation capabilities, and then instruction tuning with multimodal prompts to
achieve unified image generation proficiency. A well-designed data processing
pipeline involving language grounding and image segmentation is employed to
construct multi-modal prompts. UNIMO-G excels in both text-to-image generation
and zero-shot subject-driven synthesis, and is notably effective in generating
high-fidelity images from complex multimodal prompts involving multiple image
entities.

---

## 7. [SpacTor-T5: Pre-training T5 Models with Span Corruption and Replaced
  Token Detection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.13160)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.13160](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13160)

**Authors**: Ke Ye, Heinrich Jiang, Afshin Rostamizadeh, Ayan Chakrabarti, Giulia DeSalvo, Jean-François Kagy, Lazaros Karydas, Gui Citovsky, Sanjiv Kumar

**Published**: 2024-01-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Pre-training large language models is known to be extremely resource
intensive and often times inefficient, under-utilizing the information
encapsulated in the training text sequences. In this paper, we present SpacTor,
a new training procedure consisting of (1) a hybrid objective combining span
corruption (SC) and token replacement detection (RTD), and (2) a two-stage
curriculum that optimizes the hybrid objective over the initial tau
iterations, then transitions to standard SC loss. We show empirically that the
effectiveness of the hybrid objective is tied to the two-stage pre-training
schedule, and provide extensive analysis on why this is the case. In our
experiments with encoder-decoder architectures (T5) on a variety of NLP tasks,
SpacTor-T5 yields the same downstream performance as standard SC pre-training,
while enabling a 50% reduction in pre-training iterations and 40% reduction in
total FLOPs. Alternatively, given the same amount of computing budget, we find
that SpacTor results in significantly improved downstream benchmark
performance.

---

## 8. [Sketch2NeRF: Multi-view Sketch-guided Text-to-3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14257)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14257](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14257)

**Authors**: Minglin Chen, Longguang Wang, Weihao Yuan, Yukun Wang, Zhe Sheng, Yisheng He, Zilong Dong, Liefeng Bo, Yulan Guo

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Recently, text-to-3D approaches have achieved high-fidelity 3D content
generation using text description. However, the generated objects are
stochastic and lack fine-grained control. Sketches provide a cheap approach to
introduce such fine-grained control. Nevertheless, it is challenging to achieve
flexible control from these sketches due to their abstraction and ambiguity. In
this paper, we present a multi-view sketch-guided text-to-3D generation
framework (namely, Sketch2NeRF) to add sketch control to 3D generation.
Specifically, our method leverages pretrained 2D diffusion models (e.g., Stable
Diffusion and ControlNet) to supervise the optimization of a 3D scene
represented by a neural radiance field (NeRF). We propose a novel synchronized
generation and reconstruction method to effectively optimize the NeRF. In the
experiments, we collected two kinds of multi-view sketch datasets to evaluate
the proposed method. We demonstrate that our method can synthesize 3D
consistent contents with fine-grained sketch control while being high-fidelity
to text prompts. Extensive results show that our method achieves
state-of-the-art performance in terms of sketch similarity and text alignment.

---

## 9. [ConTextual: Evaluating Context-Sensitive Text-Rich Visual Reasoning in
  Large Multimodal Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.13311)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.13311](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13311)

**Authors**: Rohan Wadhawan, Hritik Bansal, Kai-Wei Chang, Nanyun Peng

**Published**: 2024-01-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/rohan598/contextual)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in AI have led to the development of large multimodal
models (LMMs) capable of processing complex tasks involving joint reasoning
over text and visual content in the image (e.g., navigating maps in public
places). This paper introduces ConTextual, a novel benchmark comprising
instructions designed explicitly to evaluate LMMs' ability to perform
context-sensitive text-rich visual reasoning. ConTextual emphasizes diverse
real-world scenarios (e.g., time-reading, navigation, shopping and more)
demanding a deeper understanding of the interactions between textual and visual
elements. Our findings reveal a significant performance gap of 30.8% between
the best-performing LMM, GPT-4V(ision), and human capabilities using human
evaluation indicating substantial room for improvement in context-sensitive
text-rich visual reasoning. Notably, while GPT-4V excelled in abstract
categories like meme and quote interpretation, its overall performance still
lagged behind humans. In addition to human evaluations, we also employed
automatic evaluation metrics using GPT-4, uncovering similar trends in
performance disparities. We also perform a fine-grained evaluation across
diverse visual contexts and provide qualitative analysis which provides a
robust framework for future advancements in the LMM design.
https://con-textual.github.io/

---

## 10. [MaLA-500: Massive Language Adaptation of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.13303)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.13303](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13303)

**Authors**: Peiqin Lin, Jörg Tiedemann, André F. T. Martins, Hinrich Schütze

**Published**: 2024-01-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Large language models have advanced the state of the art in natural language
processing. However, their predominant design for English or a limited set of
languages creates a substantial gap in their effectiveness for low-resource
languages. To bridge this gap, we introduce MaLA-500, a novel large language
model designed to cover an extensive range of 534 languages. To train MaLA-500,
we employ vocabulary extension and continued pretraining on LLaMA 2 with
Glot500-c. Our experiments on SIB-200 show that MaLA-500 achieves
state-of-the-art in-context learning results. We release MaLA-500 at
https://huggingface.co/MaLA-LM

---

## 11. [CreativeSynth: Creative Blending and Synthesis of Visual Arts based on
  Multimodal Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14066)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14066](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14066)

**Authors**: Nisha Huang, Weiming Dong, Yuxin Zhang, Fan Tang, Ronghui Li, Chongyang Ma, Xiu Li, Changsheng Xu

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/haha-lisa/CreativeSynth)

### Abstract

Large-scale text-to-image generative models have made impressive strides,
showcasing their ability to synthesize a vast array of high-quality images.
However, adapting these models for artistic image editing presents two
significant challenges. Firstly, users struggle to craft textual prompts that
meticulously detail visual elements of the input image. Secondly, prevalent
models, when effecting modifications in specific zones, frequently disrupt the
overall artistic style, complicating the attainment of cohesive and
aesthetically unified artworks. To surmount these obstacles, we build the
innovative unified framework CreativeSynth, which is based on a diffusion model
with the ability to coordinate multimodal inputs and multitask in the field of
artistic image generation. By integrating multimodal features with customized
attention mechanisms, CreativeSynth facilitates the importation of real-world
semantic content into the domain of art through inversion and real-time style
transfer. This allows for the precise manipulation of image style and content
while maintaining the integrity of the original model parameters. Rigorous
qualitative and quantitative evaluations underscore that CreativeSynth excels
in enhancing artistic images' fidelity and preserves their innate aesthetic
essence. By bridging the gap between generative models and artistic finesse,
CreativeSynth becomes a custom digital palette.

---
