# Daily Papers - 2024-01-01

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-01)

Total papers: 5

---

## 1. [LARP: Language-Agent Role Play for Open-World Games](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17653)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17653](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17653)

**Authors**: Ming Yan, Ruihao Li, Hao Zhang, Hao Wang, Zhilan Yang, Ji Yan

**Published**: 2023-12-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

Language agents have shown impressive problem-solving skills within defined
settings and brief timelines. Yet, with the ever-evolving complexities of
open-world simulations, there's a pressing need for agents that can flexibly
adapt to complex environments and consistently maintain a long-term memory to
ensure coherent actions. To bridge the gap between language agents and
open-world games, we introduce Language Agent for Role-Playing (LARP), which
includes a cognitive architecture that encompasses memory processing and a
decision-making assistant, an environment interaction module with a
feedback-driven learnable action space, and a postprocessing method that
promotes the alignment of various personalities. The LARP framework refines
interactions between users and agents, predefined with unique backgrounds and
personalities, ultimately enhancing the gaming experience in open-world
contexts. Furthermore, it highlights the diverse uses of language models in a
range of areas such as entertainment, education, and various simulation
scenarios. The project page is released at https://miao-ai-lab.github.io/LARP/.

---

## 2. [FlowVid: Taming Imperfect Optical Flows for Consistent Video-to-Video
  Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17681)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17681](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17681)

**Authors**: Feng Liang, Bichen Wu, Jialiang Wang, Licheng Yu, Kunpeng Li, Yinan Zhao, Ishan Misra, Jia-Bin Huang, Peizhao Zhang, Peter Vajda, Diana Marculescu

**Published**: 2023-12-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Diffusion models have transformed the image-to-image (I2I) synthesis and are
now permeating into videos. However, the advancement of video-to-video (V2V)
synthesis has been hampered by the challenge of maintaining temporal
consistency across video frames. This paper proposes a consistent V2V synthesis
framework by jointly leveraging spatial conditions and temporal optical flow
clues within the source video. Contrary to prior methods that strictly adhere
to optical flow, our approach harnesses its benefits while handling the
imperfection in flow estimation. We encode the optical flow via warping from
the first frame and serve it as a supplementary reference in the diffusion
model. This enables our model for video synthesis by editing the first frame
with any prevalent I2I models and then propagating edits to successive frames.
Our V2V model, FlowVid, demonstrates remarkable properties: (1) Flexibility:
FlowVid works seamlessly with existing I2I models, facilitating various
modifications, including stylization, object swaps, and local edits. (2)
Efficiency: Generation of a 4-second video with 30 FPS and 512x512 resolution
takes only 1.5 minutes, which is 3.1x, 7.2x, and 10.5x faster than CoDeF,
Rerender, and TokenFlow, respectively. (3) High-quality: In user studies, our
FlowVid is preferred 45.7% of the time, outperforming CoDeF (3.5%), Rerender
(10.2%), and TokenFlow (40.4%).

---

## 3. [Learning Vision from Models Rivals Learning Vision from Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17742)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17742](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17742)

**Authors**: Yonglong Tian, Lijie Fan, Kaifeng Chen, Dina Katabi, Dilip Krishnan, Phillip Isola

**Published**: 2023-12-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

We introduce SynCLR, a novel approach for learning visual representations
exclusively from synthetic images and synthetic captions, without any real
data. We synthesize a large dataset of image captions using LLMs, then use an
off-the-shelf text-to-image model to generate multiple images corresponding to
each synthetic caption. We perform visual representation learning on these
synthetic images via contrastive learning, treating images sharing the same
caption as positive pairs. The resulting representations transfer well to many
downstream tasks, competing favorably with other general-purpose visual
representation learners such as CLIP and DINO v2 in image classification tasks.
Furthermore, in dense prediction tasks such as semantic segmentation, SynCLR
outperforms previous self-supervised methods by a significant margin, e.g.,
improving over MAE and iBOT by 6.2 and 4.3 mIoU on ADE20k for ViT-B/16.

---

## 4. [PanGu-π: Enhancing Language Model Architectures via Nonlinearity
  Compensation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17276)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17276](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17276)

**Authors**: Yunhe Wang, Hanting Chen, Yehui Tang, Tianyu Guo, Kai Han, Ying Nie, Xutao Wang, Hailin Hu, Zheyuan Bai, Yun Wang, Fangcheng Liu, Zhicheng Liu, Jianyuan Guo, Sinan Zeng, Yinchen Zhang, Qinghua Xu, Qun Liu, Jun Yao, Chao Xu, Dacheng Tao

**Published**: 2023-12-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

The recent trend of large language models (LLMs) is to increase the scale of
both model size (\aka the number of parameters) and dataset to achieve better
generative ability, which is definitely proved by a lot of work such as the
famous GPT and Llama. However, large models often involve massive computational
costs, and practical applications cannot afford such high prices. However, the
method of constructing a strong model architecture for LLMs is rarely
discussed. We first analyze the state-of-the-art language model architectures
and observe the feature collapse problem. Based on the theoretical analysis, we
propose that the nonlinearity is also very important for language models, which
is usually studied in convolutional neural networks for vision tasks. The
series informed activation function is then introduced with tiny calculations
that can be ignored, and an augmented shortcut is further used to enhance the
model nonlinearity. We then demonstrate that the proposed approach is
significantly effective for enhancing the model nonlinearity through carefully
designed ablations; thus, we present a new efficient model architecture for
establishing modern, namely, PanGu-pi. Experiments are then conducted using
the same dataset and training strategy to compare PanGu-pi with
state-of-the-art LLMs. The results show that PanGu-pi-7B can achieve a
comparable performance to that of benchmarks with about 10\% inference
speed-up, and PanGu-pi-1B can achieve state-of-the-art performance in terms
of accuracy and efficiency. In addition, we have deployed PanGu-pi-7B in the
high-value domains of finance and law, developing an LLM named YunShan for
practical application. The results show that YunShan can surpass other models
with similar scales on benchmarks.

---

## 5. [Gemini in Reasoning: Unveiling Commonsense in Multimodal Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.17661)

**ArXiv ID**: [2312.17661](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17661)

**Authors**: Yuqing Wang, Yun Zhao

**Published**: 2023-12-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/eternityyw/gemini-commonsense-evaluation)

### Abstract

The burgeoning interest in Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), such as
OpenAI's GPT-4V(ision), has significantly impacted both academic and industrial
realms. These models enhance Large Language Models (LLMs) with advanced visual
understanding capabilities, facilitating their application in a variety of
multimodal tasks. Recently, Google introduced Gemini, a cutting-edge MLLM
designed specifically for multimodal integration. Despite its advancements,
preliminary benchmarks indicate that Gemini lags behind GPT models in
commonsense reasoning tasks. However, this assessment, based on a limited
dataset (i.e., HellaSWAG), does not fully capture Gemini's authentic
commonsense reasoning potential. To address this gap, our study undertakes a
thorough evaluation of Gemini's performance in complex reasoning tasks that
necessitate the integration of commonsense knowledge across modalities. We
carry out a comprehensive analysis of 12 commonsense reasoning datasets,
ranging from general to domain-specific tasks. This includes 11 datasets
focused solely on language, as well as one that incorporates multimodal
elements. Our experiments across four LLMs and two MLLMs demonstrate Gemini's
competitive commonsense reasoning capabilities. Additionally, we identify
common challenges faced by current LLMs and MLLMs in addressing commonsense
problems, underscoring the need for further advancements in enhancing the
commonsense reasoning abilities of these models.

---
