# Daily Papers - 2024-01-17

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-17)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [InstantID: Zero-shot Identity-Preserving Generation in Seconds](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.07519)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.07519](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.07519)

**Authors**: Qixun Wang, Xu Bai, Haofan Wang, Zekui Qin, Anthony Chen

**Published**: 2024-01-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 57

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/instantX-research/InstantID) | [Project Page](https://instantid.github.io/)

### Abstract

There has been significant progress in personalized image synthesis with
methods such as Textual Inversion, DreamBooth, and LoRA. Yet, their real-world
applicability is hindered by high storage demands, lengthy fine-tuning
processes, and the need for multiple reference images. Conversely, existing ID
embedding-based methods, while requiring only a single forward inference, face
challenges: they either necessitate extensive fine-tuning across numerous model
parameters, lack compatibility with community pre-trained models, or fail to
maintain high face fidelity. Addressing these limitations, we introduce
InstantID, a powerful diffusion model-based solution. Our plug-and-play module
adeptly handles image personalization in various styles using just a single
facial image, while ensuring high fidelity. To achieve this, we design a novel
IdentityNet by imposing strong semantic and weak spatial conditions,
integrating facial and landmark images with textual prompts to steer the image
generation. InstantID demonstrates exceptional performance and efficiency,
proving highly beneficial in real-world applications where identity
preservation is paramount. Moreover, our work seamlessly integrates with
popular pre-trained text-to-image diffusion models like SD1.5 and SDXL, serving
as an adaptable plugin. Our codes and pre-trained checkpoints will be available
at https://github.com/InstantID/InstantID.

---

## 2. [Scalable Pre-training of Large Autoregressive Image Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.08541)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.08541](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.08541)

**Authors**: Alaaeldin El-Nouby, Michal Klein, Shuangfei Zhai, Miguel Angel Bautista, Alexander Toshev, Vaishaal Shankar, Joshua M Susskind, Armand Joulin

**Published**: 2024-01-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/apple/ml-aim)

### Abstract

This paper introduces AIM, a collection of vision models pre-trained with an
autoregressive objective. These models are inspired by their textual
counterparts, i.e., Large Language Models (LLMs), and exhibit similar scaling
properties. Specifically, we highlight two key findings: (1) the performance of
the visual features scale with both the model capacity and the quantity of
data, (2) the value of the objective function correlates with the performance
of the model on downstream tasks. We illustrate the practical implication of
these findings by pre-training a 7 billion parameter AIM on 2 billion images,
that achieves 84.0% on ImageNet-1k with a frozen trunk. Interestingly, even at
this scale, we observe no sign of saturation in performance, suggesting that
AIM potentially represents a new frontier for training large-scale vision
models. The pre-training of AIM is similar to the pre-training of LLMs, and
does not require any image-specific strategy to stabilize the training at
scale.

---

## 3. [Contrastive Preference Optimization: Pushing the Boundaries of LLM
  Performance in Machine Translation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.08417)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.08417](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.08417)

**Authors**: Haoran Xu, Amr Sharaf, Yunmo Chen, Weiting Tan, Lingfeng Shen, Benjamin Van Durme, Kenton Murray, Young Jin Kim

**Published**: 2024-01-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 37

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/fe1ixxu/alma)

### Abstract

Moderate-sized large language models (LLMs) -- those with 7B or 13B
parameters -- exhibit promising machine translation (MT) performance. However,
even the top-performing 13B LLM-based translation models, like ALMA, does not
match the performance of state-of-the-art conventional encoder-decoder
translation models or larger-scale LLMs such as GPT-4. In this study, we bridge
this performance gap. We first assess the shortcomings of supervised
fine-tuning for LLMs in the MT task, emphasizing the quality issues present in
the reference data, despite being human-generated. Then, in contrast to SFT
which mimics reference translations, we introduce Contrastive Preference
Optimization (CPO), a novel approach that trains models to avoid generating
adequate but not perfect translations. Applying CPO to ALMA models with only
22K parallel sentences and 12M parameters yields significant improvements. The
resulting model, called ALMA-R, can match or exceed the performance of the WMT
competition winners and GPT-4 on WMT'21, WMT'22 and WMT'23 test datasets.

---

## 4. [E^2-LLM: Efficient and Extreme Length Extension of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.06951)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.06951](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06951)

**Authors**: Jiaheng Liu, Zhiqi Bai, Yuanxing Zhang, Chenchen Zhang, Yu Zhang, Ge Zhang, Jiakai Wang, Haoran Que, Yukang Chen, Wenbo Su, Tiezheng Ge, Jie Fu, Wenhu Chen, Bo Zheng

**Published**: 2024-01-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

Typically, training LLMs with long context sizes is computationally
expensive, requiring extensive training hours and GPU resources. Existing
long-context extension methods usually need additional training procedures to
support corresponding long-context windows, where the long-context training
data (e.g., 32k) is needed, and high GPU training costs are assumed. To address
the aforementioned issues, we propose an Efficient and Extreme length extension
method for Large Language Models, called E 2 -LLM, with only one training
procedure and dramatically reduced computation cost, which also removes the
need to collect long-context data. Concretely, first, the training data of our
E 2 -LLM only requires a short length (e.g., 4k), which reduces the tuning cost
greatly. Second, the training procedure on the short training context window is
performed only once time, and we can support different evaluation context
windows at inference. Third, in E 2 - LLM, based on RoPE position embeddings,
we introduce two different augmentation methods on the scale and position index
parameters for different samples in training. It aims to make the model more
robust to the different relative differences when directly interpolating the
arbitrary context length at inference. Comprehensive experimental results on
multiple benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our E 2 -LLM on
challenging long-context tasks.

---

## 5. [Tuning Language Models by Proxy](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.08565)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.08565](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.08565)

**Authors**: Alisa Liu, Xiaochuang Han, Yizhong Wang, Yulia Tsvetkov, Yejin Choi, Noah A. Smith

**Published**: 2024-01-16 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/alisawuffles/proxy-tuning)

### Abstract

Despite the general capabilities of large pretrained language models, they
consistently benefit from further adaptation to better achieve desired
behaviors. However, tuning these models has become increasingly
resource-intensive, or impossible when model weights are private. We introduce
proxy-tuning, a lightweight decoding-time algorithm that operates on top of
black-box LMs to achieve the result of directly tuning the model, but by
accessing only its prediction over the output vocabulary. Our method instead
tunes a smaller LM, then applies the difference between the predictions of the
small tuned and untuned LMs to shift the original predictions of the base model
in the direction of tuning, while retaining the benefits of larger scale
pretraining. In experiments, when we apply proxy-tuning to Llama2-70B using
proxies of only 7B size, we can close 88% of the gap between Llama2-70B and its
truly-tuned chat version, when evaluated across knowledge, reasoning, and
safety benchmarks. Interestingly, when tested on TruthfulQA, proxy-tuned models
are actually more truthful than directly tuned models, possibly because
decoding-time guidance better retains the model's factual knowledge. We then
demonstrate the generality of proxy-tuning by applying it for domain adaptation
on code, and task-specific finetuning on question-answering and math problems.
Our work demonstrates the promise of using small tuned LMs to efficiently
customize large, potentially proprietary LMs through decoding-time guidance.

---

## 6. [Extending LLMs' Context Window with 100 Samples](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.07004)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.07004](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.07004)

**Authors**: Yikai Zhang, Junlong Li, Pengfei Liu

**Published**: 2024-01-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gair-nlp/entropy-abf)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) are known to have limited extrapolation ability
beyond their pre-trained context window, constraining their application in
downstream tasks with lengthy inputs. Recent studies have sought to extend
LLMs' context window by modifying rotary position embedding (RoPE), a popular
position encoding method adopted by well-known LLMs such as LLaMA, PaLM, and
GPT-NeoX. However, prior works like Position Interpolation (PI) and YaRN are
resource-intensive and lack comparative experiments to assess their
applicability. In this work, we identify the inherent need for LLMs' attention
entropy (i.e. the information entropy of attention scores) to maintain
stability and introduce a novel extension to RoPE which combines adjusting
RoPE's base frequency and scaling the attention logits to help LLMs efficiently
adapt to a larger context window. We validate the superiority of our method in
both fine-tuning performance and robustness across different context window
sizes on various context-demanding tasks. Notably, our method extends the
context window of LLaMA-2-7B-Chat to 16,384 with only 100 samples and 6
training steps, showcasing extraordinary efficiency. Finally, we also explore
how data compositions and training curricula affect context window extension
for specific downstream tasks, suggesting fine-tuning LLMs with lengthy
conversations as a good starting point. We release our code and SFT data at
https://github.com/GAIR-NLP/Entropy-ABF.

---

## 7. [Towards A Better Metric for Text-to-Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.07781)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.07781](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.07781)

**Authors**: Jay Zhangjie Wu, Guian Fang, Xintao Wang, Yixiao Ge, Xiaodong Cun, David Junhao Zhang, Jia-Wei Liu, Yuchao Gu, Rui Zhao, Weisi Lin, Wynne Hsu, Ying Shan, Mike Zheng Shou

**Published**: 2024-01-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Generative models have demonstrated remarkable capability in synthesizing
high-quality text, images, and videos. For video generation, contemporary
text-to-video models exhibit impressive capabilities, crafting visually
stunning videos. Nonetheless, evaluating such videos poses significant
challenges. Current research predominantly employs automated metrics such as
FVD, IS, and CLIP Score. However, these metrics provide an incomplete analysis,
particularly in the temporal assessment of video content, thus rendering them
unreliable indicators of true video quality. Furthermore, while user studies
have the potential to reflect human perception accurately, they are hampered by
their time-intensive and laborious nature, with outcomes that are often tainted
by subjective bias. In this paper, we investigate the limitations inherent in
existing metrics and introduce a novel evaluation pipeline, the Text-to-Video
Score (T2VScore). This metric integrates two pivotal criteria: (1) Text-Video
Alignment, which scrutinizes the fidelity of the video in representing the
given text description, and (2) Video Quality, which evaluates the video's
overall production caliber with a mixture of experts. Moreover, to evaluate the
proposed metrics and facilitate future improvements on them, we present the
TVGE dataset, collecting human judgements of 2,543 text-to-video generated
videos on the two criteria. Experiments on the TVGE dataset demonstrate the
superiority of the proposed T2VScore on offering a better metric for
text-to-video generation.

---

## 8. [Quantum Denoising Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.07049)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.07049](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.07049)

**Authors**: Michael Kölle, Gerhard Stenzel, Jonas Stein, Sebastian Zielinski, Björn Ommer, Claudia Linnhoff-Popien

**Published**: 2024-01-13 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/michaelkoelle/quantum-diffusion)

### Abstract

In recent years, machine learning models like DALL-E, Craiyon, and Stable
Diffusion have gained significant attention for their ability to generate
high-resolution images from concise descriptions. Concurrently, quantum
computing is showing promising advances, especially with quantum machine
learning which capitalizes on quantum mechanics to meet the increasing
computational requirements of traditional machine learning algorithms. This
paper explores the integration of quantum machine learning and variational
quantum circuits to augment the efficacy of diffusion-based image generation
models. Specifically, we address two challenges of classical diffusion models:
their low sampling speed and the extensive parameter requirements. We introduce
two quantum diffusion models and benchmark their capabilities against their
classical counterparts using MNIST digits, Fashion MNIST, and CIFAR-10. Our
models surpass the classical models with similar parameter counts in terms of
performance metrics FID, SSIM, and PSNR. Moreover, we introduce a consistency
model unitary single sampling architecture that combines the diffusion
procedure into a single step, enabling a fast one-step image generation.

---

## 9. [HexaGen3D: StableDiffusion is just one step away from Fast and Diverse
  Text-to-3D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.07727)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.07727](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.07727)

**Authors**: Antoine Mercier, Ramin Nakhli, Mahesh Reddy, Rajeev Yasarla, Hong Cai, Fatih Porikli, Guillaume Berger

**Published**: 2024-01-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Despite the latest remarkable advances in generative modeling, efficient
generation of high-quality 3D assets from textual prompts remains a difficult
task. A key challenge lies in data scarcity: the most extensive 3D datasets
encompass merely millions of assets, while their 2D counterparts contain
billions of text-image pairs. To address this, we propose a novel approach
which harnesses the power of large, pretrained 2D diffusion models. More
specifically, our approach, HexaGen3D, fine-tunes a pretrained text-to-image
model to jointly predict 6 orthographic projections and the corresponding
latent triplane. We then decode these latents to generate a textured mesh.
HexaGen3D does not require per-sample optimization, and can infer high-quality
and diverse objects from textual prompts in 7 seconds, offering significantly
better quality-to-latency trade-offs when comparing to existing approaches.
Furthermore, HexaGen3D demonstrates strong generalization to new objects or
compositions.

---
