# Daily Papers - 2024-01-08

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-08)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [DeepSeek LLM: Scaling Open-Source Language Models with Longtermism](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.02954)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.02954](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02954)

**Organization**: DeepSeek

**Authors**: DeepSeek-AI, Xiao Bi, Deli Chen, Guanting Chen, Shanhuang Chen, Damai Dai, Chengqi Deng, Honghui Ding, Kai Dong, Qiushi Du, Zhe Fu, Huazuo Gao, Kaige Gao, Wenjun Gao, Ruiqi Ge, Kang Guan, Daya Guo, Jianzhong Guo, Guangbo Hao, Zhewen Hao, Ying He, Wenjie Hu, Panpan Huang, Erhang Li, Guowei Li, Jiashi Li, Yao Li, Y. K. Li, Wenfeng Liang, Fangyun Lin, A. X. Liu, Bo Liu, Wen Liu, Xiaodong Liu, Xin Liu, Yiyuan Liu, Haoyu Lu, Shanghao Lu, Fuli Luo, Shirong Ma, Xiaotao Nie, Tian Pei, Yishi Piao, Junjie Qiu, Hui Qu, Tongzheng Ren, Zehui Ren, Chong Ruan, Zhangli Sha, Zhihong Shao, Junxiao Song, Xuecheng Su, Jingxiang Sun, Yaofeng Sun, Minghui Tang, Bingxuan Wang, Peiyi Wang, Shiyu Wang, Yaohui Wang, Yongji Wang, Tong Wu, Y. Wu, Xin Xie, Zhenda Xie, Ziwei Xie, Yiliang Xiong, Hanwei Xu, R. X. Xu, Yanhong Xu, Dejian Yang, Yuxiang You, Shuiping Yu, Xingkai Yu, B. Zhang, Haowei Zhang, Lecong Zhang, Liyue Zhang, Mingchuan Zhang, Minghua Zhang, Wentao Zhang, Yichao Zhang, Chenggang Zhao, Yao Zhao, Shangyan Zhou, Shunfeng Zhou, Qihao Zhu, Yuheng Zou

**Published**: 2024-01-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 53

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/deepseek-ai/deepseek-llm)

### Abstract

The rapid development of open-source large language models (LLMs) has been
truly remarkable. However, the scaling law described in previous literature
presents varying conclusions, which casts a dark cloud over scaling LLMs. We
delve into the study of scaling laws and present our distinctive findings that
facilitate scaling of large scale models in two commonly used open-source
configurations, 7B and 67B. Guided by the scaling laws, we introduce DeepSeek
LLM, a project dedicated to advancing open-source language models with a
long-term perspective. To support the pre-training phase, we have developed a
dataset that currently consists of 2 trillion tokens and is continuously
expanding. We further conduct supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and Direct
Preference Optimization (DPO) on DeepSeek LLM Base models, resulting in the
creation of DeepSeek Chat models. Our evaluation results demonstrate that
DeepSeek LLM 67B surpasses LLaMA-2 70B on various benchmarks, particularly in
the domains of code, mathematics, and reasoning. Furthermore, open-ended
evaluations reveal that DeepSeek LLM 67B Chat exhibits superior performance
compared to GPT-3.5.

---

## 2. [DocGraphLM: Documental Graph Language Model for Information Extraction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.02823)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.02823](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02823)

**Authors**: Dongsheng Wang, Zhiqiang Ma, Armineh Nourbakhsh, Kang Gu, Sameena Shah

**Published**: 2024-01-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 36

### Abstract

Advances in Visually Rich Document Understanding (VrDU) have enabled
information extraction and question answering over documents with complex
layouts. Two tropes of architectures have emerged -- transformer-based models
inspired by LLMs, and Graph Neural Networks. In this paper, we introduce
DocGraphLM, a novel framework that combines pre-trained language models with
graph semantics. To achieve this, we propose 1) a joint encoder architecture to
represent documents, and 2) a novel link prediction approach to reconstruct
document graphs. DocGraphLM predicts both directions and distances between
nodes using a convergent joint loss function that prioritizes neighborhood
restoration and downweighs distant node detection. Our experiments on three
SotA datasets show consistent improvement on IE and QA tasks with the adoption
of graph features. Moreover, we report that adopting the graph features
accelerates convergence in the learning process during training, despite being
solely constructed through link prediction.

---

## 3. [Denoising Vision Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.02957)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.02957](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02957)

**Authors**: Jiawei Yang, Katie Z Luo, Jiefeng Li, Kilian Q Weinberger, Yonglong Tian, Yue Wang

**Published**: 2024-01-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Jiawei-Yang/Denoising-ViT)

### Abstract

We delve into a nuanced but significant challenge inherent to Vision
Transformers (ViTs): feature maps of these models exhibit grid-like artifacts,
which detrimentally hurt the performance of ViTs in downstream tasks. Our
investigations trace this fundamental issue down to the positional embeddings
at the input stage. To address this, we propose a novel noise model, which is
universally applicable to all ViTs. Specifically, the noise model dissects ViT
outputs into three components: a semantics term free from noise artifacts and
two artifact-related terms that are conditioned on pixel locations. Such a
decomposition is achieved by enforcing cross-view feature consistency with
neural fields in a per-image basis. This per-image optimization process
extracts artifact-free features from raw ViT outputs, providing clean features
for offline applications. Expanding the scope of our solution to support online
functionality, we introduce a learnable denoiser to predict artifact-free
features directly from unprocessed ViT outputs, which shows remarkable
generalization capabilities to novel data without the need for per-image
optimization. Our two-stage approach, termed Denoising Vision Transformers
(DVT), does not require re-training existing pre-trained ViTs and is
immediately applicable to any Transformer-based architecture. We evaluate our
method on a variety of representative ViTs (DINO, MAE, DeiT-III, EVA02, CLIP,
DINOv2, DINOv2-reg). Extensive evaluations demonstrate that our DVT
consistently and significantly improves existing state-of-the-art
general-purpose models in semantic and geometric tasks across multiple datasets
(e.g., +3.84 mIoU). We hope our study will encourage a re-evaluation of ViT
design, especially regarding the naive use of positional embeddings.

---

## 4. [Progressive Knowledge Distillation Of Stable Diffusion XL Using Layer
  Level Loss](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.02677)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.02677](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02677)

**Authors**: Yatharth Gupta, Vishnu V. Jaddipal, Harish Prabhala, Sayak Paul, Patrick Von Platen

**Published**: 2024-01-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/segmind/ssd-1b)

### Abstract

Stable Diffusion XL (SDXL) has become the best open source text-to-image
model (T2I) for its versatility and top-notch image quality. Efficiently
addressing the computational demands of SDXL models is crucial for wider reach
and applicability. In this work, we introduce two scaled-down variants, Segmind
Stable Diffusion (SSD-1B) and Segmind-Vega, with 1.3B and 0.74B parameter
UNets, respectively, achieved through progressive removal using layer-level
losses focusing on reducing the model size while preserving generative quality.
We release these models weights at https://hf.co/Segmind. Our methodology
involves the elimination of residual networks and transformer blocks from the
U-Net structure of SDXL, resulting in significant reductions in parameters, and
latency. Our compact models effectively emulate the original SDXL by
capitalizing on transferred knowledge, achieving competitive results against
larger multi-billion parameter SDXL. Our work underscores the efficacy of
knowledge distillation coupled with layer-level losses in reducing model size
while preserving the high-quality generative capabilities of SDXL, thus
facilitating more accessible deployment in resource-constrained environments.

---

## 5. [Open-Vocabulary SAM: Segment and Recognize Twenty-thousand Classes
  Interactively](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.02955)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.02955](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02955)

**Authors**: Haobo Yuan, Xiangtai Li, Chong Zhou, Yining Li, Kai Chen, Chen Change Loy

**Published**: 2024-01-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/harboryuan/ovsam)

### Abstract

The CLIP and Segment Anything Model (SAM) are remarkable vision foundation
models (VFMs). SAM excels in segmentation tasks across diverse domains, while
CLIP is renowned for its zero-shot recognition capabilities. This paper
presents an in-depth exploration of integrating these two models into a unified
framework. Specifically, we introduce the Open-Vocabulary SAM, a SAM-inspired
model designed for simultaneous interactive segmentation and recognition,
leveraging two unique knowledge transfer modules: SAM2CLIP and CLIP2SAM. The
former adapts SAM's knowledge into the CLIP via distillation and learnable
transformer adapters, while the latter transfers CLIP knowledge into SAM,
enhancing its recognition capabilities. Extensive experiments on various
datasets and detectors show the effectiveness of Open-Vocabulary SAM in both
segmentation and recognition tasks, significantly outperforming the naive
baselines of simply combining SAM and CLIP. Furthermore, aided with image
classification data training, our method can segment and recognize
approximately 22,000 classes.

---

## 6. [Pheme: Efficient and Conversational Speech Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.02839)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.02839](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02839)

**Authors**: Paweł Budzianowski, Taras Sereda, Tomasz Cichy, Ivan Vulić

**Published**: 2024-01-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/PolyAI-LDN/pheme)

### Abstract

In recent years, speech generation has seen remarkable progress, now
achieving one-shot generation capability that is often virtually
indistinguishable from real human voice. Integrating such advancements in
speech generation with large language models might revolutionize a wide range
of applications. However, certain applications, such as assistive
conversational systems, require natural and conversational speech generation
tools that also operate efficiently in real time. Current state-of-the-art
models like VALL-E and SoundStorm, powered by hierarchical neural audio codecs,
require large neural components and extensive training data to work well. In
contrast, MQTTS aims to build more compact conversational TTS models while
capitalizing on smaller-scale real-life conversational speech data. However,
its autoregressive nature yields high inference latency and thus limits its
real-time usage. In order to mitigate the current limitations of the
state-of-the-art TTS models while capitalizing on their strengths, in this work
we introduce the Pheme model series that 1) offers compact yet high-performing
models, 2) allows for parallel speech generation of 3) natural conversational
speech, and 4) it can be trained efficiently on smaller-scale conversational
data, cutting data demands by more than 10x but still matching the quality of
the autoregressive TTS models. We also show that through simple teacher-student
distillation we can meet significant improvements in voice quality for
single-speaker setups on top of pretrained Pheme checkpoints, relying solely on
synthetic speech generated by much larger teacher models. Audio samples and
pretrained models are available online.

---
