# Daily Papers - 2024-01-30

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-30)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [InternLM-XComposer2: Mastering Free-form Text-Image Composition and
  Comprehension in Vision-Language Large Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16420)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16420](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16420)

**Authors**: Xiaoyi Dong, Yuhang Zang, Yuhang Cao, Bin Wang, Linke Ouyang, Xilin Wei, Songyang Zhang, Haodong Duan, Maosong Cao, Wenwei Zhang, Yining Li, Hang Yan, Yang Gao, Xinyue Zhang, Wei Li, Jingwen Li, Kai Chen, Conghui He, Xingcheng Zhang, Yu Qiao, Dahua Lin, Jiaqi Wang

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 55

### Abstract

We introduce InternLM-XComposer2, a cutting-edge vision-language model
excelling in free-form text-image composition and comprehension. This model
goes beyond conventional vision-language understanding, adeptly crafting
interleaved text-image content from diverse inputs like outlines, detailed
textual specifications, and reference images, enabling highly customizable
content creation. InternLM-XComposer2 proposes a Partial LoRA (PLoRA) approach
that applies additional LoRA parameters exclusively to image tokens to preserve
the integrity of pre-trained language knowledge, striking a balance between
precise vision understanding and text composition with literary talent.
Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of InternLM-XComposer2 based
on InternLM2-7B in producing high-quality long-text multi-modal content and its
exceptional vision-language understanding performance across various
benchmarks, where it not only significantly outperforms existing multimodal
models but also matches or even surpasses GPT-4V and Gemini Pro in certain
assessments. This highlights its remarkable proficiency in the realm of
multimodal understanding. The InternLM-XComposer2 model series with 7B
parameters are publicly available at
https://github.com/InternLM/InternLM-XComposer.

---

## 2. [MoE-LLaVA: Mixture of Experts for Large Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.15947)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.15947](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15947)

**Authors**: Bin Lin, Zhenyu Tang, Yang Ye, Jiaxi Cui, Bin Zhu, Peng Jin, Munan Ning, Li Yuan

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 53

### Abstract

For Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs), scaling the model can effectively
improve performance. However, expanding model parameters significantly
increases the training and inferring costs, as all model parameters are
activated for each token in the calculation. In this work, we propose a novel
training strategy MoE-tuning for LVLMs, which can constructing a sparse model
with an outrageous number of parameter but a constant computational cost, and
effectively addresses the performance degradation typically associated with
multi-modal learning and model sparsity. Furthermore, we present the MoE-LLaVA
framework, a MoE-based sparse LVLM architecture. This framework uniquely
activates only the top-k experts through routers during deployment, keeping the
remaining experts inactive. Our extensive experiments highlight the excellent
capabilities of MoE-LLaVA in visual understanding and its potential to reduce
hallucinations in model outputs. Remarkably, with just 3 billion sparsely
activated parameters, MoE-LLaVA demonstrates performance comparable to the
LLaVA-1.5-7B on various visual understanding datasets and even surpasses the
LLaVA-1.5-13B in object hallucination benchmarks. Through MoE-LLaVA, we aim to
establish a baseline for sparse LVLMs and provide valuable insights for future
research in developing more efficient and effective multi-modal learning
systems. Code is released at https://github.com/PKU-YuanGroup/MoE-LLaVA.

---

## 3. [Rephrasing the Web: A Recipe for Compute and Data-Efficient Language
  Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16380)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16380](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16380)

**Authors**: Pratyush Maini, Skyler Seto, He Bai, David Grangier, Yizhe Zhang, Navdeep Jaitly

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 51

### Abstract

Large language models are trained on massive scrapes of the web, which are
often unstructured, noisy, and poorly phrased. Current scaling laws show that
learning from such data requires an abundance of both compute and data, which
grows with the size of the model being trained. This is infeasible both because
of the large compute costs and duration associated with pre-training, and the
impending scarcity of high-quality data on the web. In this work, we propose
Web Rephrase Augmented Pre-training (WRAP) that uses an
off-the-shelf instruction-tuned model prompted to paraphrase documents on the
web in specific styles such as "like Wikipedia" or in "question-answer format"
to jointly pre-train LLMs on real and synthetic rephrases. First, we show that
using WRAP on the C4 dataset, which is naturally noisy, speeds up pre-training
by sim3x. At the same pre-training compute budget, it improves perplexity by
more than 10% on average across different subsets of the Pile, and improves
zero-shot question answer accuracy across 13 tasks by more than 2%. Second, we
investigate the impact of the re-phrasing style on the performance of the
model, offering insights into how the composition of the training data can
impact the performance of LLMs in OOD settings. Our gains are attributed to the
fact that re-phrased synthetic data has higher utility than just real data
because it (i) incorporates style diversity that closely reflects downstream
evaluation style, and (ii) has higher 'quality' than web-scraped data.

---

## 4. [Motion-I2V: Consistent and Controllable Image-to-Video Generation with
  Explicit Motion Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.15977)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.15977](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15977)

**Authors**: Xiaoyu Shi, Zhaoyang Huang, Fu-Yun Wang, Weikang Bian, Dasong Li, Yi Zhang, Manyuan Zhang, Ka Chun Cheung, Simon See, Hongwei Qin, Jifeng Da, Hongsheng Li

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 39

### Abstract

We introduce Motion-I2V, a novel framework for consistent and controllable
image-to-video generation (I2V). In contrast to previous methods that directly
learn the complicated image-to-video mapping, Motion-I2V factorizes I2V into
two stages with explicit motion modeling. For the first stage, we propose a
diffusion-based motion field predictor, which focuses on deducing the
trajectories of the reference image's pixels. For the second stage, we propose
motion-augmented temporal attention to enhance the limited 1-D temporal
attention in video latent diffusion models. This module can effectively
propagate reference image's feature to synthesized frames with the guidance of
predicted trajectories from the first stage. Compared with existing methods,
Motion-I2V can generate more consistent videos even at the presence of large
motion and viewpoint variation. By training a sparse trajectory ControlNet for
the first stage, Motion-I2V can support users to precisely control motion
trajectories and motion regions with sparse trajectory and region annotations.
This offers more controllability of the I2V process than solely relying on
textual instructions. Additionally, Motion-I2V's second stage naturally
supports zero-shot video-to-video translation. Both qualitative and
quantitative comparisons demonstrate the advantages of Motion-I2V over prior
approaches in consistent and controllable image-to-video generation.

---

## 5. [SERL: A Software Suite for Sample-Efficient Robotic Reinforcement
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16013)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16013](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16013)

**Authors**: Jianlan Luo, Zheyuan Hu, Charles Xu, You Liang Tan, Jacob Berg, Archit Sharma, Stefan Schaal, Chelsea Finn, Abhishek Gupta, Sergey Levine

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/rail-berkeley/serl) | [Project Page](https://serl-robot.github.io/)

### Abstract

In recent years, significant progress has been made in the field of robotic
reinforcement learning (RL), enabling methods that handle complex image
observations, train in the real world, and incorporate auxiliary data, such as
demonstrations and prior experience. However, despite these advances, robotic
RL remains hard to use. It is acknowledged among practitioners that the
particular implementation details of these algorithms are often just as
important (if not more so) for performance as the choice of algorithm. We posit
that a significant challenge to widespread adoption of robotic RL, as well as
further development of robotic RL methods, is the comparative inaccessibility
of such methods. To address this challenge, we developed a carefully
implemented library containing a sample efficient off-policy deep RL method,
together with methods for computing rewards and resetting the environment, a
high-quality controller for a widely-adopted robot, and a number of challenging
example tasks. We provide this library as a resource for the community,
describe its design choices, and present experimental results. Perhaps
surprisingly, we find that our implementation can achieve very efficient
learning, acquiring policies for PCB board assembly, cable routing, and object
relocation between 25 to 50 minutes of training per policy on average,
improving over state-of-the-art results reported for similar tasks in the
literature. These policies achieve perfect or near-perfect success rates,
extreme robustness even under perturbations, and exhibit emergent recovery and
correction behaviors. We hope that these promising results and our high-quality
open-source implementation will provide a tool for the robotics community to
facilitate further developments in robotic RL. Our code, documentation, and
videos can be found at https://serl-robot.github.io/

---

## 6. [Media2Face: Co-speech Facial Animation Generation With Multi-Modality
  Guidance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.15687)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.15687](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15687)

**Authors**: Qingcheng Zhao, Pengyu Long, Qixuan Zhang, Dafei Qin, Han Liang, Longwen Zhang, Yingliang Zhang, Jingyi Yu, Lan Xu

**Published**: 2024-01-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

The synthesis of 3D facial animations from speech has garnered considerable
attention. Due to the scarcity of high-quality 4D facial data and
well-annotated abundant multi-modality labels, previous methods often suffer
from limited realism and a lack of lexible conditioning. We address this
challenge through a trilogy. We first introduce Generalized Neural Parametric
Facial Asset (GNPFA), an efficient variational auto-encoder mapping facial
geometry and images to a highly generalized expression latent space, decoupling
expressions and identities. Then, we utilize GNPFA to extract high-quality
expressions and accurate head poses from a large array of videos. This presents
the M2F-D dataset, a large, diverse, and scan-level co-speech 3D facial
animation dataset with well-annotated emotional and style labels. Finally, we
propose Media2Face, a diffusion model in GNPFA latent space for co-speech
facial animation generation, accepting rich multi-modality guidances from
audio, text, and image. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our model not
only achieves high fidelity in facial animation synthesis but also broadens the
scope of expressiveness and style adaptability in 3D facial animation.

---

## 7. [Mobile-Agent: Autonomous Multi-Modal Mobile Device Agent with Visual
  Perception](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.16158)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.16158](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16158)

**Authors**: Junyang Wang, Haiyang Xu, Jiabo Ye, Ming Yan, Weizhou Shen, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, Jitao Sang

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

Mobile device agent based on Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLM) is
becoming a popular application. In this paper, we introduce Mobile-Agent, an
autonomous multi-modal mobile device agent. Mobile-Agent first leverages visual
perception tools to accurately identify and locate both the visual and textual
elements within the app's front-end interface. Based on the perceived vision
context, it then autonomously plans and decomposes the complex operation task,
and navigates the mobile Apps through operations step by step. Different from
previous solutions that rely on XML files of Apps or mobile system metadata,
Mobile-Agent allows for greater adaptability across diverse mobile operating
environments in a vision-centric way, thereby eliminating the necessity for
system-specific customizations. To assess the performance of Mobile-Agent, we
introduced Mobile-Eval, a benchmark for evaluating mobile device operations.
Based on Mobile-Eval, we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of Mobile-Agent.
The experimental results indicate that Mobile-Agent achieved remarkable
accuracy and completion rates. Even with challenging instructions, such as
multi-app operations, Mobile-Agent can still complete the requirements. Code
and model will be open-sourced at https://github.com/X-PLUG/MobileAgent.

---

## 8. [StableIdentity: Inserting Anybody into Anywhere at First Sight](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.15975)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.15975](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15975)

**Authors**: Qinghe Wang, Xu Jia, Xiaomin Li, Liqian Ma, Yunzhi Zhuge, Huchuan Lu

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/qinghew/StableIdentity) | [Project Page](https://qinghew.github.io/StableIdentity/)

### Abstract

Recent advances in large pretrained text-to-image models have shown
unprecedented capabilities for high-quality human-centric generation, however,
customizing face identity is still an intractable problem. Existing methods
cannot ensure stable identity preservation and flexible editability, even with
several images for each subject during training. In this work, we propose
StableIdentity, which allows identity-consistent recontextualization with just
one face image. More specifically, we employ a face encoder with an identity
prior to encode the input face, and then land the face representation into a
space with an editable prior, which is constructed from celeb names. By
incorporating identity prior and editability prior, the learned identity can be
injected anywhere with various contexts. In addition, we design a masked
two-phase diffusion loss to boost the pixel-level perception of the input face
and maintain the diversity of generation. Extensive experiments demonstrate our
method outperforms previous customization methods. In addition, the learned
identity can be flexibly combined with the off-the-shelf modules such as
ControlNet. Notably, to the best knowledge, we are the first to directly inject
the identity learned from a single image into video/3D generation without
finetuning. We believe that the proposed StableIdentity is an important step to
unify image, video, and 3D customized generation models.

---

## 9. [Object-Driven One-Shot Fine-tuning of Text-to-Image Diffusion with
  Prototypical Embedding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.15708)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.15708](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15708)

**Authors**: Jianxiang Lu, Cong Xie, Hui Guo

**Published**: 2024-01-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

As large-scale text-to-image generation models have made remarkable progress
in the field of text-to-image generation, many fine-tuning methods have been
proposed. However, these models often struggle with novel objects, especially
with one-shot scenarios. Our proposed method aims to address the challenges of
generalizability and fidelity in an object-driven way, using only a single
input image and the object-specific regions of interest. To improve
generalizability and mitigate overfitting, in our paradigm, a prototypical
embedding is initialized based on the object's appearance and its class, before
fine-tuning the diffusion model. And during fine-tuning, we propose a
class-characterizing regularization to preserve prior knowledge of object
classes. To further improve fidelity, we introduce object-specific loss, which
can also use to implant multiple objects. Overall, our proposed object-driven
method for implanting new objects can integrate seamlessly with existing
concepts as well as with high fidelity and generalization. Our method
outperforms several existing works. The code will be released.

---

## 10. [Divide and Conquer: Language Models can Plan and Self-Correct for
  Compositional Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.15688)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.15688](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15688)

**Authors**: Zhenyu Wang, Enze Xie, Aoxue Li, Zhongdao Wang, Xihui Liu, Zhenguo Li

**Published**: 2024-01-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Despite significant advancements in text-to-image models for generating
high-quality images, these methods still struggle to ensure the controllability
of text prompts over images in the context of complex text prompts, especially
when it comes to retaining object attributes and relationships. In this paper,
we propose CompAgent, a training-free approach for compositional text-to-image
generation, with a large language model (LLM) agent as its core. The
fundamental idea underlying CompAgent is premised on a divide-and-conquer
methodology. Given a complex text prompt containing multiple concepts including
objects, attributes, and relationships, the LLM agent initially decomposes it,
which entails the extraction of individual objects, their associated
attributes, and the prediction of a coherent scene layout. These individual
objects can then be independently conquered. Subsequently, the agent performs
reasoning by analyzing the text, plans and employs the tools to compose these
isolated objects. The verification and human feedback mechanism is finally
incorporated into our agent to further correct the potential attribute errors
and refine the generated images. Guided by the LLM agent, we propose a
tuning-free multi-concept customization model and a layout-to-image generation
model as the tools for concept composition, and a local image editing method as
the tool to interact with the agent for verification. The scene layout controls
the image generation process among these tools to prevent confusion among
multiple objects. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our
approach for compositional text-to-image generation: CompAgent achieves more
than 10\% improvement on T2I-CompBench, a comprehensive benchmark for
open-world compositional T2I generation. The extension to various related tasks
also illustrates the flexibility of our CompAgent for potential applications.

---

## 11. [Overcoming the Pitfalls of Vision-Language Model Finetuning for OOD
  Generalization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.15914)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.15914](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15914)

**Authors**: Yuhang Zang, Hanlin Goh, Josh Susskind, Chen Huang

**Published**: 2024-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-30 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/apple/ml-ogen)

### Abstract

Existing vision-language models exhibit strong generalization on a variety of
visual domains and tasks. However, such models mainly perform zero-shot
recognition in a closed-set manner, and thus struggle to handle open-domain
visual concepts by design. There are recent finetuning methods, such as prompt
learning, that not only study the discrimination between in-distribution (ID)
and out-of-distribution (OOD) samples, but also show some improvements in both
ID and OOD accuracies. In this paper, we first demonstrate that vision-language
models, after long enough finetuning but without proper regularization, tend to
overfit the known classes in the given dataset, with degraded performance on
unknown classes. Then we propose a novel approach OGEN to address this pitfall,
with the main focus on improving the OOD GENeralization of finetuned models.
Specifically, a class-conditional feature generator is introduced to synthesize
OOD features using just the class name of any unknown class. Such synthesized
features will provide useful knowledge about unknowns and help regularize the
decision boundary between ID and OOD data when optimized jointly. Equally
important is our adaptive self-distillation mechanism to regularize our feature
generation model during joint optimization, i.e., adaptively transferring
knowledge between model states to further prevent overfitting. Experiments
validate that our method yields convincing gains in OOD generalization
performance in different settings.

---
