# Daily Papers - 2024-01-26

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-26)

Total papers: 10

---

## 1. [DeepSeek-Coder: When the Large Language Model Meets Programming -- The
  Rise of Code Intelligence](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14196)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14196](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14196)

**Organization**: DeepSeek

**Authors**: Daya Guo, Qihao Zhu, Dejian Yang, Zhenda Xie, Kai Dong, Wentao Zhang, Guanting Chen, Xiao Bi, Y. Wu, Y. K. Li, Fuli Luo, Yingfei Xiong, Wenfeng Liang

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 71

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-Coder)

### Abstract

The rapid development of large language models has revolutionized code
intelligence in software development. However, the predominance of
closed-source models has restricted extensive research and development. To
address this, we introduce the DeepSeek-Coder series, a range of open-source
code models with sizes from 1.3B to 33B, trained from scratch on 2 trillion
tokens. These models are pre-trained on a high-quality project-level code
corpus and employ a fill-in-the-blank task with a 16K window to enhance code
generation and infilling. Our extensive evaluations demonstrate that
DeepSeek-Coder not only achieves state-of-the-art performance among open-source
code models across multiple benchmarks but also surpasses existing
closed-source models like Codex and GPT-3.5. Furthermore, DeepSeek-Coder models
are under a permissive license that allows for both research and unrestricted
commercial use.

---

## 2. [Diffuse to Choose: Enriching Image Conditioned Inpainting in Latent
  Diffusion Models for Virtual Try-All](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.13795)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.13795](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13795)

**Authors**: Mehmet Saygin Seyfioglu, Karim Bouyarmane, Suren Kumar, Amir Tavanaei, Ismail B. Tutar

**Published**: 2024-01-24 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 68

### Abstract

As online shopping is growing, the ability for buyers to virtually visualize
products in their settings-a phenomenon we define as "Virtual Try-All"-has
become crucial. Recent diffusion models inherently contain a world model,
rendering them suitable for this task within an inpainting context. However,
traditional image-conditioned diffusion models often fail to capture the
fine-grained details of products. In contrast, personalization-driven models
such as DreamPaint are good at preserving the item's details but they are not
optimized for real-time applications. We present "Diffuse to Choose," a novel
diffusion-based image-conditioned inpainting model that efficiently balances
fast inference with the retention of high-fidelity details in a given reference
item while ensuring accurate semantic manipulations in the given scene content.
Our approach is based on incorporating fine-grained features from the reference
image directly into the latent feature maps of the main diffusion model,
alongside with a perceptual loss to further preserve the reference item's
details. We conduct extensive testing on both in-house and publicly available
datasets, and show that Diffuse to Choose is superior to existing zero-shot
diffusion inpainting methods as well as few-shot diffusion personalization
algorithms like DreamPaint.

---

## 3. [Rethinking Patch Dependence for Masked Autoencoders](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14391)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14391](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14391)

**Authors**: Letian Fu, Long Lian, Renhao Wang, Baifeng Shi, Xudong Wang, Adam Yala, Trevor Darrell, Alexei A. Efros, Ken Goldberg

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/TonyLianLong/CrossMAE) | [Project Page](https://crossmae.github.io)

### Abstract

In this work, we re-examine inter-patch dependencies in the decoding
mechanism of masked autoencoders (MAE). We decompose this decoding mechanism
for masked patch reconstruction in MAE into self-attention and cross-attention.
Our investigations suggest that self-attention between mask patches is not
essential for learning good representations. To this end, we propose a novel
pretraining framework: Cross-Attention Masked Autoencoders (CrossMAE).
CrossMAE's decoder leverages only cross-attention between masked and visible
tokens, with no degradation in downstream performance. This design also enables
decoding only a small subset of mask tokens, boosting efficiency. Furthermore,
each decoder block can now leverage different encoder features, resulting in
improved representation learning. CrossMAE matches MAE in performance with 2.5
to 3.7times less decoding compute. It also surpasses MAE on ImageNet
classification and COCO instance segmentation under the same compute. Code and
models: https://crossmae.github.io

---

## 4. [Unitxt: Flexible, Shareable and Reusable Data Preparation and Evaluation
  for Generative AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14019)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14019](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14019)

**Authors**: Elron Bandel, Yotam Perlitz, Elad Venezian, Roni Friedman-Melamed, Ofir Arviv, Matan Orbach, Shachar Don-Yehyia, Dafna Sheinwald, Ariel Gera, Leshem Choshen, Michal Shmueli-Scheuer, Yoav Katz

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ibm/unitxt)

### Abstract

In the dynamic landscape of generative NLP, traditional text processing
pipelines limit research flexibility and reproducibility, as they are tailored
to specific dataset, task, and model combinations. The escalating complexity,
involving system prompts, model-specific formats, instructions, and more, calls
for a shift to a structured, modular, and customizable solution. Addressing
this need, we present Unitxt, an innovative library for customizable textual
data preparation and evaluation tailored to generative language models. Unitxt
natively integrates with common libraries like HuggingFace and LM-eval-harness
and deconstructs processing flows into modular components, enabling easy
customization and sharing between practitioners. These components encompass
model-specific formats, task prompts, and many other comprehensive dataset
processing definitions. The Unitxt-Catalog centralizes these components,
fostering collaboration and exploration in modern textual data workflows.
Beyond being a tool, Unitxt is a community-driven platform, empowering users to
build, share, and advance their pipelines collaboratively. Join the Unitxt
community at https://github.com/IBM/unitxt!

---

## 5. [FP6-LLM: Efficiently Serving Large Language Models Through FP6-Centric
  Algorithm-System Co-Design](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14112)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14112](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14112)

**Authors**: Haojun Xia, Zhen Zheng, Xiaoxia Wu, Shiyang Chen, Zhewei Yao, Stephen Youn, Arash Bakhtiari, Michael Wyatt, Donglin Zhuang, Zhongzhu Zhou, Olatunji Ruwase, Yuxiong He, Shuaiwen Leon Song

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yifu-ding/bgemm-cuda)

### Abstract

Six-bit quantization (FP6) can effectively reduce the size of large language
models (LLMs) and preserve the model quality consistently across varied
applications. However, existing systems do not provide Tensor Core support for
FP6 quantization and struggle to achieve practical performance improvements
during LLM inference. It is challenging to support FP6 quantization on GPUs due
to (1) unfriendly memory access of model weights with irregular bit-width and
(2) high runtime overhead of weight de-quantization. To address these problems,
we propose TC-FPx, the first full-stack GPU kernel design scheme with unified
Tensor Core support of float-point weights for various quantization bit-width.
We integrate TC-FPx kernel into an existing inference system, providing new
end-to-end support (called FP6-LLM) for quantized LLM inference, where better
trade-offs between inference cost and model quality are achieved. Experiments
show that FP6-LLM enables the inference of LLaMA-70b using only a single GPU,
achieving 1.69x-2.65x higher normalized inference throughput than the FP16
baseline. The source code will be publicly available soon.

---

## 6. [Deconstructing Denoising Diffusion Models for Self-Supervised Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14404)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14404](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14404)

**Authors**: Xinlei Chen, Zhuang Liu, Saining Xie, Kaiming He

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

In this study, we examine the representation learning abilities of Denoising
Diffusion Models (DDM) that were originally purposed for image generation. Our
philosophy is to deconstruct a DDM, gradually transforming it into a classical
Denoising Autoencoder (DAE). This deconstructive procedure allows us to explore
how various components of modern DDMs influence self-supervised representation
learning. We observe that only a very few modern components are critical for
learning good representations, while many others are nonessential. Our study
ultimately arrives at an approach that is highly simplified and to a large
extent resembles a classical DAE. We hope our study will rekindle interest in a
family of classical methods within the realm of modern self-supervised
learning.

---

## 7. [Multimodal Pathway: Improve Transformers with Irrelevant Data from Other
  Modalities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14405)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14405](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14405)

**Authors**: Yiyuan Zhang, Xiaohan Ding, Kaixiong Gong, Yixiao Ge, Ying Shan, Xiangyu Yue

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ailab-cvc/m2pt)

### Abstract

We propose to improve transformers of a specific modality with irrelevant
data from other modalities, e.g., improve an ImageNet model with audio or point
cloud datasets. We would like to highlight that the data samples of the target
modality are irrelevant to the other modalities, which distinguishes our method
from other works utilizing paired (e.g., CLIP) or interleaved data of different
modalities. We propose a methodology named Multimodal Pathway - given a target
modality and a transformer designed for it, we use an auxiliary transformer
trained with data of another modality and construct pathways to connect
components of the two models so that data of the target modality can be
processed by both models. In this way, we utilize the universal
sequence-to-sequence modeling abilities of transformers obtained from two
modalities. As a concrete implementation, we use a modality-specific tokenizer
and task-specific head as usual but utilize the transformer blocks of the
auxiliary model via a proposed method named Cross-Modal Re-parameterization,
which exploits the auxiliary weights without any inference costs. On the image,
point cloud, video, and audio recognition tasks, we observe significant and
consistent performance improvements with irrelevant data from other modalities.
The code and models are available at https://github.com/AILab-CVC/M2PT.

---

## 8. [Adaptive Mobile Manipulation for Articulated Objects In the Open World](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14403)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14403](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14403)

**Authors**: Haoyu Xiong, Russell Mendonca, Kenneth Shaw, Deepak Pathak

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Deploying robots in open-ended unstructured environments such as homes has
been a long-standing research problem. However, robots are often studied only
in closed-off lab settings, and prior mobile manipulation work is restricted to
pick-move-place, which is arguably just the tip of the iceberg in this area. In
this paper, we introduce Open-World Mobile Manipulation System, a full-stack
approach to tackle realistic articulated object operation, e.g. real-world
doors, cabinets, drawers, and refrigerators in open-ended unstructured
environments. The robot utilizes an adaptive learning framework to initially
learns from a small set of data through behavior cloning, followed by learning
from online practice on novel objects that fall outside the training
distribution. We also develop a low-cost mobile manipulation hardware platform
capable of safe and autonomous online adaptation in unstructured environments
with a cost of around 20,000 USD. In our experiments we utilize 20 articulate
objects across 4 buildings in the CMU campus. With less than an hour of online
learning for each object, the system is able to increase success rate from 50%
of BC pre-training to 95% using online adaptation. Video results at
https://open-world-mobilemanip.github.io/

---

## 9. [pix2gestalt: Amodal Segmentation by Synthesizing Wholes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14398)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14398](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14398)

**Authors**: Ege Ozguroglu, Ruoshi Liu, Dídac Surís, Dian Chen, Achal Dave, Pavel Tokmakov, Carl Vondrick

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/cvlab-columbia/pix2gestalt)

### Abstract

We introduce pix2gestalt, a framework for zero-shot amodal segmentation,
which learns to estimate the shape and appearance of whole objects that are
only partially visible behind occlusions. By capitalizing on large-scale
diffusion models and transferring their representations to this task, we learn
a conditional diffusion model for reconstructing whole objects in challenging
zero-shot cases, including examples that break natural and physical priors,
such as art. As training data, we use a synthetically curated dataset
containing occluded objects paired with their whole counterparts. Experiments
show that our approach outperforms supervised baselines on established
benchmarks. Our model can furthermore be used to significantly improve the
performance of existing object recognition and 3D reconstruction methods in the
presence of occlusions.

---

## 10. [Genie: Achieving Human Parity in Content-Grounded Datasets Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.14367)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.14367](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14367)

**Authors**: Asaf Yehudai, Boaz Carmeli, Yosi Mass, Ofir Arviv, Nathaniel Mills, Assaf Toledo, Eyal Shnarch, Leshem Choshen

**Published**: 2024-01-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-26 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

The lack of high-quality data for content-grounded generation tasks has been
identified as a major obstacle to advancing these tasks. To address this gap,
we propose Genie, a novel method for automatically generating high-quality
content-grounded data. It consists of three stages: (a) Content Preparation,
(b) Generation: creating task-specific examples from the content (e.g.,
question-answer pairs or summaries). (c) Filtering mechanism aiming to ensure
the quality and faithfulness of the generated data. We showcase this
methodology by generating three large-scale synthetic data, making wishes, for
Long-Form Question-Answering (LFQA), summarization, and information extraction.
In a human evaluation, our generated data was found to be natural and of high
quality. Furthermore, we compare models trained on our data with models trained
on human-written data -- ELI5 and ASQA for LFQA and CNN-DailyMail for
Summarization. We show that our models are on par with or outperforming models
trained on human-generated data and consistently outperforming them in
faithfulness. Finally, we applied our method to create LFQA data within the
medical domain and compared a model trained on it with models trained on other
domains.

---
