# Daily Papers - 2024-01-24

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-01-24)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [Lumiere: A Space-Time Diffusion Model for Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.12945)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.12945](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12945)

**Authors**: Omer Bar-Tal, Hila Chefer, Omer Tov, Charles Herrmann, Roni Paiss, Shiran Zada, Ariel Ephrat, Junhwa Hur, Yuanzhen Li, Tomer Michaeli, Oliver Wang, Deqing Sun, Tali Dekel, Inbar Mosseri

**Published**: 2024-01-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 87

### Abstract

We introduce Lumiere -- a text-to-video diffusion model designed for
synthesizing videos that portray realistic, diverse and coherent motion -- a
pivotal challenge in video synthesis. To this end, we introduce a Space-Time
U-Net architecture that generates the entire temporal duration of the video at
once, through a single pass in the model. This is in contrast to existing video
models which synthesize distant keyframes followed by temporal super-resolution
-- an approach that inherently makes global temporal consistency difficult to
achieve. By deploying both spatial and (importantly) temporal down- and
up-sampling and leveraging a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model, our
model learns to directly generate a full-frame-rate, low-resolution video by
processing it in multiple space-time scales. We demonstrate state-of-the-art
text-to-video generation results, and show that our design easily facilitates a
wide range of content creation tasks and video editing applications, including
image-to-video, video inpainting, and stylized generation.

---

## 2. [Small Language Model Meets with Reinforced Vision Vocabulary](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.12503)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.12503](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12503)

**Authors**: Haoran Wei, Lingyu Kong, Jinyue Chen, Liang Zhao, Zheng Ge, En Yu, Jianjian Sun, Chunrui Han, Xiangyu Zhang

**Published**: 2024-01-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

### Abstract

Playing Large Vision Language Models (LVLMs) in 2023 is trendy among the AI
community. However, the relatively large number of parameters (more than 7B) of
popular LVLMs makes it difficult to train and deploy on consumer GPUs,
discouraging many researchers with limited resources. Imagine how cool it would
be to experience all the features of current LVLMs on an old GTX1080ti (our
only game card). Accordingly, we present Vary-toy in this report, a small-size
Vary along with Qwen-1.8B as the base ``large'' language model. In Vary-toy, we
introduce an improved vision vocabulary, allowing the model to not only possess
all features of Vary but also gather more generality. Specifically, we replace
negative samples of natural images with positive sample data driven by object
detection in the procedure of generating vision vocabulary, more sufficiently
utilizing the capacity of the vocabulary network and enabling it to efficiently
encode visual information corresponding to natural objects. For experiments,
Vary-toy can achieve 65.6% ANLS on DocVQA, 59.1% accuracy on ChartQA, 88.1%
accuracy on RefCOCO, and 29% on MMVet. The code will be publicly available on
the homepage.

---

## 3. [AutoRT: Embodied Foundation Models for Large Scale Orchestration of
  Robotic Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.12963)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.12963](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12963)

**Authors**: Michael Ahn, Debidatta Dwibedi, Chelsea Finn, Montse Gonzalez Arenas, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Nikhil Joshi, Ryan Julian, Sean Kirmani, Isabel Leal, Edward Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Isabel Leal, Sharath Maddineni, Kanishka Rao, Dorsa Sadigh, Pannag Sanketi, Pierre Sermanet, Quan Vuong, Stefan Welker, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Steve Xu, Zhuo Xu

**Published**: 2024-01-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Foundation models that incorporate language, vision, and more recently
actions have revolutionized the ability to harness internet scale data to
reason about useful tasks. However, one of the key challenges of training
embodied foundation models is the lack of data grounded in the physical world.
In this paper, we propose AutoRT, a system that leverages existing foundation
models to scale up the deployment of operational robots in completely unseen
scenarios with minimal human supervision. AutoRT leverages vision-language
models (VLMs) for scene understanding and grounding, and further uses large
language models (LLMs) for proposing diverse and novel instructions to be
performed by a fleet of robots. Guiding data collection by tapping into the
knowledge of foundation models enables AutoRT to effectively reason about
autonomy tradeoffs and safety while significantly scaling up data collection
for robot learning. We demonstrate AutoRT proposing instructions to over 20
robots across multiple buildings and collecting 77k real robot episodes via
both teleoperation and autonomous robot policies. We experimentally show that
such "in-the-wild" data collected by AutoRT is significantly more diverse, and
that AutoRT's use of LLMs allows for instruction following data collection
robots that can align to human preferences.

---

## 4. [BiTA: Bi-Directional Tuning for Lossless Acceleration in Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.12522)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.12522](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12522)

**Authors**: Feng Lin, Hanling Yi, Hongbin Li, Yifan Yang, Xiaotian Yu, Guangming Lu, Rong Xiao

**Published**: 2024-01-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/linfeng93/bita)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) commonly employ autoregressive generation during
inference, leading to high memory bandwidth demand and consequently extended
latency. To mitigate this inefficiency, we present Bi-directional Tuning for
lossless Acceleration (BiTA), an innovative method expediting LLMs via
streamlined semi-autoregressive generation and draft verification. Inspired by
the concept of prompt tuning, we enhance LLMs with a parameter-efficient design
called bi-directional tuning for the capability in semi-autoregressive
generation. Employing efficient tree-based decoding, the models perform draft
candidate generation and verification in parallel, ensuring outputs identical
to their autoregressive counterparts under greedy sampling. BiTA serves as a
lightweight plug-in module, seamlessly boosting the inference efficiency of
existing LLMs without requiring additional assistance models or incurring
significant extra memory costs. Applying the proposed BiTA, LLaMA-2-70B-Chat
achieves a 2.7times speedup on the MT-Bench benchmark. Extensive experiments
confirm our method surpasses state-of-the-art acceleration techniques.

---

## 5. [GALA: Generating Animatable Layered Assets from a Single Scan](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.12979)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.12979](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12979)

**Authors**: Taeksoo Kim, Byungjun Kim, Shunsuke Saito, Hanbyul Joo

**Published**: 2024-01-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

We present GALA, a framework that takes as input a single-layer clothed 3D
human mesh and decomposes it into complete multi-layered 3D assets. The outputs
can then be combined with other assets to create novel clothed human avatars
with any pose. Existing reconstruction approaches often treat clothed humans as
a single-layer of geometry and overlook the inherent compositionality of humans
with hairstyles, clothing, and accessories, thereby limiting the utility of the
meshes for downstream applications. Decomposing a single-layer mesh into
separate layers is a challenging task because it requires the synthesis of
plausible geometry and texture for the severely occluded regions. Moreover,
even with successful decomposition, meshes are not normalized in terms of poses
and body shapes, failing coherent composition with novel identities and poses.
To address these challenges, we propose to leverage the general knowledge of a
pretrained 2D diffusion model as geometry and appearance prior for humans and
other assets. We first separate the input mesh using the 3D surface
segmentation extracted from multi-view 2D segmentations. Then we synthesize the
missing geometry of different layers in both posed and canonical spaces using a
novel pose-guided Score Distillation Sampling (SDS) loss. Once we complete
inpainting high-fidelity 3D geometry, we also apply the same SDS loss to its
texture to obtain the complete appearance including the initially occluded
regions. Through a series of decomposition steps, we obtain multiple layers of
3D assets in a shared canonical space normalized in terms of poses and human
shapes, hence supporting effortless composition to novel identities and
reanimation with novel poses. Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of
our approach for decomposition, canonicalization, and composition tasks
compared to existing solutions.

---

## 6. [Multilingual and Fully Non-Autoregressive ASR with Large Language Model
  Fusion: A Comprehensive Study](https://huggingface.co/papers/2401.12789)

**ArXiv ID**: [2401.12789](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12789)

**Authors**: W. Ronny Huang, Cyril Allauzen, Tongzhou Chen, Kilol Gupta, Ke Hu, James Qin, Yu Zhang, Yongqiang Wang, Shuo-Yiin Chang, Tara N. Sainath

**Published**: 2024-01-23 | **Submitted**: 2024-01-24 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

In the era of large models, the autoregressive nature of decoding often
results in latency serving as a significant bottleneck. We propose a
non-autoregressive LM-fused ASR system that effectively leverages the
parallelization capabilities of accelerator hardware. Our approach combines the
Universal Speech Model (USM) and the PaLM 2 language model in per-segment
scoring mode, achieving an average relative WER improvement across all
languages of 10.8% on FLEURS and 3.6% on YouTube captioning. Furthermore, our
comprehensive ablation study analyzes key parameters such as LLM size, context
length, vocabulary size, fusion methodology. For instance, we explore the
impact of LLM size ranging from 128M to 340B parameters on ASR performance.
This study provides valuable insights into the factors influencing the
effectiveness of practical large-scale LM-fused speech recognition systems.

---
