# Daily Papers - 2025-01-31

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-01-31)

Total papers: 10

---

## 1. [GuardReasoner: Towards Reasoning-based LLM Safeguards](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.18492)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.18492](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18492)

**Authors**: Yue Liu, Hongcheng Gao, Shengfang Zhai, Jun Xia, Tianyi Wu, Zhiwei Xue, Yulin Chen, Kenji Kawaguchi, Jiaheng Zhang, Bryan Hooi

**Published**: 2025-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-31 by yueliu1999

**Upvotes**: 88

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yueliu1999/guardreasoner)

### Abstract

As LLMs increasingly impact safety-critical applications, ensuring their
safety using guardrails remains a key challenge. This paper proposes
GuardReasoner, a new safeguard for LLMs, by guiding the guard model to learn to
reason. Concretely, we first create the GuardReasonerTrain dataset, which
consists of 127K samples with 460K detailed reasoning steps. Then, we introduce
reasoning SFT to unlock the reasoning capability of guard models. In addition,
we present hard sample DPO to further strengthen their reasoning ability. In
this manner, GuardReasoner achieves better performance, explainability, and
generalizability. Extensive experiments and analyses on 13 benchmarks of 3
guardrail tasks demonstrate its superiority. Remarkably, GuardReasoner 8B
surpasses GPT-4o+CoT by 5.74% and LLaMA Guard 3 8B by 20.84% F1 score on
average. We release the training data, code, and models with different scales
(1B, 3B, 8B) of GuardReasoner : https://github.com/yueliu1999/GuardReasoner/.

---

## 2. [Thoughts Are All Over the Place: On the Underthinking of o1-Like LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.18585)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.18585](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18585)

**Authors**: Yue Wang, Qiuzhi Liu, Jiahao Xu, Tian Liang, Xingyu Chen, Zhiwei He, Linfeng Song, Dian Yu, Juntao Li, Zhuosheng Zhang, Rui Wang, Zhaopeng Tu, Haitao Mi, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2025-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 61

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) such as OpenAI's o1 have demonstrated remarkable
abilities in complex reasoning tasks by scaling test-time compute and
exhibiting human-like deep thinking. However, we identify a phenomenon we term
underthinking, where o1-like LLMs frequently switch between different reasoning
thoughts without sufficiently exploring promising paths to reach a correct
solution. This behavior leads to inadequate depth of reasoning and decreased
performance, particularly on challenging mathematical problems. To
systematically analyze this issue, we conduct experiments on three challenging
test sets and two representative open-source o1-like models, revealing that
frequent thought switching correlates with incorrect responses. We introduce a
novel metric to quantify underthinking by measuring token efficiency in
incorrect answers. To address underthinking, we propose a decoding strategy
with thought switching penalty TIP that discourages premature transitions
between thoughts, encouraging deeper exploration of each reasoning path.
Experimental results demonstrate that our approach improves accuracy across
challenging datasets without requiring model fine-tuning. Our findings
contribute to understanding reasoning inefficiencies in o1-like LLMs and offer
a practical solution to enhance their problem-solving capabilities.

---

## 3. [Streaming DiLoCo with overlapping communication: Towards a Distributed
  Free Lunch](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.18512)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.18512](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18512)

**Authors**: Arthur Douillard, Yanislav Donchev, Keith Rush, Satyen Kale, Zachary Charles, Zachary Garrett, Gabriel Teston, Dave Lacey, Ross McIlroy, Jiajun Shen, Alexandre Ramé, Arthur Szlam, Marc'Aurelio Ranzato, Paul Barham

**Published**: 2025-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-31 by Arthur Douillard

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

Training of large language models (LLMs) is typically distributed across a
large number of accelerators to reduce training time. Since internal states and
parameter gradients need to be exchanged at each and every single gradient
step, all devices need to be co-located using low-latency high-bandwidth
communication links to support the required high volume of exchanged bits.
Recently, distributed algorithms like DiLoCo have relaxed such co-location
constraint: accelerators can be grouped into ``workers'', where
synchronizations between workers only occur infrequently. This in turn means
that workers can afford being connected by lower bandwidth communication links
without affecting learning quality. However, in these methods, communication
across workers still requires the same peak bandwidth as before, as the
synchronizations require all parameters to be exchanged across all workers. In
this paper, we improve DiLoCo in three ways. First, we synchronize only subsets
of parameters in sequence, rather than all at once, which greatly reduces peak
bandwidth. Second, we allow workers to continue training while synchronizing,
which decreases wall clock time. Third, we quantize the data exchanged by
workers, which further reduces bandwidth across workers. By properly combining
these modifications, we show experimentally that we can distribute training of
billion-scale parameters and reach similar quality as before, but reducing
required bandwidth by two orders of magnitude.

---

## 4. [SANA 1.5: Efficient Scaling of Training-Time and Inference-Time Compute
  in Linear Diffusion Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.18427)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.18427](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18427)

**Authors**: Enze Xie, Junsong Chen, Yuyang Zhao, Jincheng Yu, Ligeng Zhu, Yujun Lin, Zhekai Zhang, Muyang Li, Junyu Chen, Han Cai, Bingchen Liu, Daquan Zhou, Song Han

**Published**: 2025-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-31 by Yuyang

**Upvotes**: 24

### Abstract

This paper presents SANA-1.5, a linear Diffusion Transformer for efficient
scaling in text-to-image generation. Building upon SANA-1.0, we introduce three
key innovations: (1) Efficient Training Scaling: A depth-growth paradigm that
enables scaling from 1.6B to 4.8B parameters with significantly reduced
computational resources, combined with a memory-efficient 8-bit optimizer. (2)
Model Depth Pruning: A block importance analysis technique for efficient model
compression to arbitrary sizes with minimal quality loss. (3) Inference-time
Scaling: A repeated sampling strategy that trades computation for model
capacity, enabling smaller models to match larger model quality at inference
time. Through these strategies, SANA-1.5 achieves a text-image alignment score
of 0.72 on GenEval, which can be further improved to 0.80 through inference
scaling, establishing a new SoTA on GenEval benchmark. These innovations enable
efficient model scaling across different compute budgets while maintaining high
quality, making high-quality image generation more accessible.

---

## 5. [o3-mini vs DeepSeek-R1: Which One is Safer?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.18438)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.18438](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18438)

**Authors**: Aitor Arrieta, Miriam Ugarte, Pablo Valle, José Antonio Parejo, Sergio Segura

**Published**: 2025-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-31 by Pablo Valle

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/trust4ai/astral)

### Abstract

The irruption of DeepSeek-R1 constitutes a turning point for the AI industry
in general and the LLMs in particular. Its capabilities have demonstrated
outstanding performance in several tasks, including creative thinking, code
generation, maths and automated program repair, at apparently lower execution
cost. However, LLMs must adhere to an important qualitative property, i.e.,
their alignment with safety and human values. A clear competitor of DeepSeek-R1
is its American counterpart, OpenAI's o3-mini model, which is expected to set
high standards in terms of performance, safety and cost. In this paper we
conduct a systematic assessment of the safety level of both, DeepSeek-R1 (70b
version) and OpenAI's o3-mini (beta version). To this end, we make use of our
recently released automated safety testing tool, named ASTRAL. By leveraging
this tool, we automatically and systematically generate and execute a total of
1260 unsafe test inputs on both models. After conducting a semi-automated
assessment of the outcomes provided by both LLMs, the results indicate that
DeepSeek-R1 is highly unsafe as compared to OpenAI's o3-mini. Based on our
evaluation, DeepSeek-R1 answered unsafely to 11.98% of the executed prompts
whereas o3-mini only to 1.19%.

---

## 6. [MedXpertQA: Benchmarking Expert-Level Medical Reasoning and
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.18362)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.18362](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18362)

**Authors**: Shang Qu, Yifei Li, Zhangren Chen, Xuekai Zhu, Ermo Hua, Kaiyan Zhang, Ning Ding, Bowen Zhou

**Published**: 2025-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-31 by Shang (Lindsay) Qu

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/TsinghuaC3I/MedXpertQA) | [Project Page](https://medxpertqa.github.io)

### Abstract

We introduce MedXpertQA, a highly challenging and comprehensive benchmark to
evaluate expert-level medical knowledge and advanced reasoning. MedXpertQA
includes 4,460 questions spanning 17 specialties and 11 body systems. It
includes two subsets, Text for text evaluation and MM for multimodal
evaluation. Notably, MM introduces expert-level exam questions with diverse
images and rich clinical information, including patient records and examination
results, setting it apart from traditional medical multimodal benchmarks with
simple QA pairs generated from image captions. MedXpertQA applies rigorous
filtering and augmentation to address the insufficient difficulty of existing
benchmarks like MedQA, and incorporates specialty board questions to improve
clinical relevance and comprehensiveness. We perform data synthesis to mitigate
data leakage risk and conduct multiple rounds of expert reviews to ensure
accuracy and reliability. We evaluate 16 leading models on MedXpertQA.
Moreover, medicine is deeply connected to real-world decision-making, providing
a rich and representative setting for assessing reasoning abilities beyond
mathematics and code. To this end, we develop a reasoning-oriented subset to
facilitate the assessment of o1-like models.

---

## 7. [Large Language Models Think Too Fast To Explore Effectively](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.18009)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.18009](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18009)

**Authors**: Lan Pan, Hanbo Xie, Robert C. Wilson

**Published**: 2025-01-29 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-31 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Large Language Models have emerged many intellectual capacities. While
numerous benchmarks assess their intelligence, limited attention has been given
to their ability to explore, an essential capacity for discovering new
information and adapting to novel environments in both natural and artificial
systems. The extent to which LLMs can effectively explore, particularly in
open-ended tasks, remains unclear. This study investigates whether LLMs can
surpass humans in exploration during an open-ended task, using Little Alchemy 2
as a paradigm, where agents combine elements to discover new ones. Results show
most LLMs underperform compared to humans, except for the o1 model, with those
traditional LLMs relying primarily on uncertainty driven strategies, unlike
humans who balance uncertainty and empowerment. Representational analysis of
the models with Sparse Autoencoders revealed that uncertainty and choices are
represented at earlier transformer blocks, while empowerment values are
processed later, causing LLMs to think too fast and make premature decisions,
hindering effective exploration. These findings shed light on the limitations
of LLM exploration and suggest directions for improving their adaptability.

---

## 8. [WILDCHAT-50M: A Deep Dive Into the Role of Synthetic Data in
  Post-Training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.18511)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.18511](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18511)

**Authors**: Benjamin Feuer, Chinmay Hegde

**Published**: 2025-01-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-31 by Daniel van Strien

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/penfever/wildchat-50m)

### Abstract

Language model (LLM) post-training, from DPO to distillation, can refine
behaviors and unlock new skills, but the open science supporting these
post-training techniques is still in its infancy. One limiting factor has been
the difficulty of conducting large-scale comparative analyses of synthetic data
generating models and LLM judges. To close this gap, we introduce WILDCHAT-50M,
the largest public chat dataset to date. We extend the existing WildChat
dataset to include responses not only from GPT, but from over 50 different
open-weight models, ranging in size from 0.5B to 104B parameters. We conduct an
extensive comparative analysis and demonstrate the potential of this dataset by
creating RE-WILD, our own public SFT mix, which outperforms the recent Tulu-3
SFT mixture from Allen AI with only 40% as many samples. Our dataset, samples
and code are available at https://github.com/penfever/wildchat-50m.

---

## 9. [PhysBench: Benchmarking and Enhancing Vision-Language Models for
  Physical World Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.16411)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.16411](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16411)

**Authors**: Wei Chow, Jiageng Mao, Boyi Li, Daniel Seita, Vitor Guizilini, Yue Wang

**Published**: 2025-01-27 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-31 by Wei Chow

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/USC-GVL/PhysBench) | [Project Page](https://physbench.github.io/)

### Abstract

Understanding the physical world is a fundamental challenge in embodied AI,
critical for enabling agents to perform complex tasks and operate safely in
real-world environments. While Vision-Language Models (VLMs) have shown great
promise in reasoning and task planning for embodied agents, their ability to
comprehend physical phenomena remains extremely limited. To close this gap, we
introduce PhysBench, a comprehensive benchmark designed to evaluate VLMs'
physical world understanding capability across a diverse set of tasks.
PhysBench contains 10,002 entries of interleaved video-image-text data,
categorized into four major domains: physical object properties, physical
object relationships, physical scene understanding, and physics-based dynamics,
further divided into 19 subclasses and 8 distinct capability dimensions. Our
extensive experiments, conducted on 75 representative VLMs, reveal that while
these models excel in common-sense reasoning, they struggle with understanding
the physical world -- likely due to the absence of physical knowledge in their
training data and the lack of embedded physical priors. To tackle the
shortfall, we introduce PhysAgent, a novel framework that combines the
generalization strengths of VLMs with the specialized expertise of vision
models, significantly enhancing VLMs' physical understanding across a variety
of tasks, including an 18.4\% improvement on GPT-4o. Furthermore, our results
demonstrate that enhancing VLMs' physical world understanding capabilities can
help embodied agents such as MOKA. We believe that PhysBench and PhysAgent
offer valuable insights and contribute to bridging the gap between VLMs and
physical world understanding.

---

## 10. [CowPilot: A Framework for Autonomous and Human-Agent Collaborative Web
  Navigation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.16609)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.16609](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16609)

**Authors**: Faria Huq, Zora Zhiruo Wang, Frank F. Xu, Tianyue Ou, Shuyan Zhou, Jeffrey P. Bigham, Graham Neubig

**Published**: 2025-01-28 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-31 by Faria Huq

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [Project Page](https://oaishi.github.io/cowpilot.html)

### Abstract

While much work on web agents emphasizes the promise of autonomously
performing tasks on behalf of users, in reality, agents often fall short on
complex tasks in real-world contexts and modeling user preference. This
presents an opportunity for humans to collaborate with the agent and leverage
the agent's capabilities effectively. We propose CowPilot, a framework
supporting autonomous as well as human-agent collaborative web navigation, and
evaluation across task success and task efficiency. CowPilot reduces the number
of steps humans need to perform by allowing agents to propose next steps, while
users are able to pause, reject, or take alternative actions. During execution,
users can interleave their actions with the agent by overriding suggestions or
resuming agent control when needed. We conducted case studies on five common
websites and found that the human-agent collaborative mode achieves the highest
success rate of 95% while requiring humans to perform only 15.2% of the total
steps. Even with human interventions during task execution, the agent
successfully drives up to half of task success on its own. CowPilot can serve
as a useful tool for data collection and agent evaluation across websites,
which we believe will enable research in how users and agents can work
together. Video demonstrations are available at
https://oaishi.github.io/cowpilot.html

---
