# Daily Papers - 2025-01-03

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-01-03)

Total papers: 19

---

## 1. [2.5 Years in Class: A Multimodal Textbook for Vision-Language
  Pretraining](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.00958)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.00958](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00958)

**Authors**: Wenqi Zhang, Hang Zhang, Xin Li, Jiashuo Sun, Yongliang Shen, Weiming Lu, Deli Zhao, Yueting Zhuang, Lidong Bing

**Published**: 2025-01-01 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Wenqi Zhang

**Upvotes**: 109

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/damo-nlp-sg/multimodal_textbook) | [Project Page](https://multimodal-interleaved-textbook.github.io)

### Abstract

Compared to image-text pair data, interleaved corpora enable Vision-Language
Models (VLMs) to understand the world more naturally like humans. However, such
existing datasets are crawled from webpage, facing challenges like low
knowledge density, loose image-text relations, and poor logical coherence
between images. On the other hand, the internet hosts vast instructional videos
(e.g., online geometry courses) that are widely used by humans to learn
foundational subjects, yet these valuable resources remain underexplored in VLM
training. In this paper, we introduce a high-quality multimodal
textbook corpus with richer foundational knowledge for VLM pretraining. It
collects over 2.5 years of instructional videos, totaling 22,000 class hours.
We first use an LLM-proposed taxonomy to systematically gather instructional
videos. Then we progressively extract and refine visual (keyframes), audio
(ASR), and textual knowledge (OCR) from the videos, and organize as an
image-text interleaved corpus based on temporal order. Compared to its
counterparts, our video-centric textbook offers more coherent context, richer
knowledge, and better image-text alignment. Experiments demonstrate its superb
pretraining performance, particularly in knowledge- and reasoning-intensive
tasks like ScienceQA and MathVista. Moreover, VLMs pre-trained on our textbook
exhibit outstanding interleaved context awareness, leveraging visual and
textual cues in their few-shot context for task solving~Our code are
available at \url{https://github.com/DAMO-NLP-SG/multimodal_textbook}.

---

## 2. [VideoAnydoor: High-fidelity Video Object Insertion with Precise Motion
  Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01427)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01427](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01427)

**Authors**: Yuanpeng Tu, Hao Luo, Xi Chen, Sihui Ji, Xiang Bai, Hengshuang Zhao

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by xichen

**Upvotes**: 53

**Links**: [Project Page](https://videoanydoor.github.io/)

### Abstract

Despite significant advancements in video generation, inserting a given
object into videos remains a challenging task. The difficulty lies in
preserving the appearance details of the reference object and accurately
modeling coherent motions at the same time. In this paper, we propose
VideoAnydoor, a zero-shot video object insertion framework with high-fidelity
detail preservation and precise motion control. Starting from a text-to-video
model, we utilize an ID extractor to inject the global identity and leverage a
box sequence to control the overall motion. To preserve the detailed appearance
and meanwhile support fine-grained motion control, we design a pixel warper. It
takes the reference image with arbitrary key-points and the corresponding
key-point trajectories as inputs. It warps the pixel details according to the
trajectories and fuses the warped features with the diffusion U-Net, thus
improving detail preservation and supporting users in manipulating the motion
trajectories. In addition, we propose a training strategy involving both videos
and static images with a reweight reconstruction loss to enhance insertion
quality. VideoAnydoor demonstrates significant superiority over existing
methods and naturally supports various downstream applications (e.g., talking
head generation, video virtual try-on, multi-region editing) without
task-specific fine-tuning.

---

## 3. [CodeElo: Benchmarking Competition-level Code Generation of LLMs with
  Human-comparable Elo Ratings](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01257)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01257](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01257)

**Authors**: Shanghaoran Quan, Jiaxi Yang, Bowen Yu, Bo Zheng, Dayiheng Liu, An Yang, Xuancheng Ren, Bofei Gao, Yibo Miao, Zekun Wang, Jian Yang, Zeyu Cui, Yang Fan, Yichang Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Junyang Lin

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 51

### Abstract

With the increasing code reasoning capabilities of existing large language
models (LLMs) and breakthroughs in reasoning models like OpenAI o1 and o3,
there is a growing need to develop more challenging and comprehensive
benchmarks that effectively test their sophisticated competition-level coding
abilities. Existing benchmarks, like LiveCodeBench and USACO, fall short due to
the unavailability of private test cases, lack of support for special judges,
and misaligned execution environments. To bridge this gap, we introduce
CodeElo, a standardized competition-level code generation benchmark that
effectively addresses all these challenges for the first time. CodeElo
benchmark is mainly based on the official CodeForces platform and tries to
align with the platform as much as possible. We compile the recent six months
of contest problems on CodeForces with detailed information such as contest
divisions, problem difficulty ratings, and problem algorithm tags. We introduce
a unique judging method in which problems are submitted directly to the
platform and develop a reliable Elo rating calculation system that aligns with
the platform and is comparable with human participants but has lower variance.
By testing on our CodeElo, we provide the Elo ratings of 30 existing popular
open-source and 3 proprietary LLMs for the first time. The results show that
o1-mini and QwQ-32B-Preview stand out significantly, achieving Elo ratings of
1578 and 1261, respectively, while other models struggle even with the easiest
problems, placing in the lowest 20 percent among all human participants.
Detailed analysis experiments are also conducted to provide insights into
performance across algorithms and comparisons between using C++ and Python,
which can suggest directions for future studies.

---

## 4. [LTX-Video: Realtime Video Latent Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.00103)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.00103](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00103)

**Authors**: Yoav HaCohen, Nisan Chiprut, Benny Brazowski, Daniel Shalem, Dudu Moshe, Eitan Richardson, Eran Levin, Guy Shiran, Nir Zabari, Ori Gordon, Poriya Panet, Sapir Weissbuch, Victor Kulikov, Yaki Bitterman, Zeev Melumian, Ofir Bibi

**Published**: 2024-12-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by AK

**Upvotes**: 50

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Lightricks/LTX-Video)

### Abstract

We introduce LTX-Video, a transformer-based latent diffusion model that
adopts a holistic approach to video generation by seamlessly integrating the
responsibilities of the Video-VAE and the denoising transformer. Unlike
existing methods, which treat these components as independent, LTX-Video aims
to optimize their interaction for improved efficiency and quality. At its core
is a carefully designed Video-VAE that achieves a high compression ratio of
1:192, with spatiotemporal downscaling of 32 x 32 x 8 pixels per token, enabled
by relocating the patchifying operation from the transformer's input to the
VAE's input. Operating in this highly compressed latent space enables the
transformer to efficiently perform full spatiotemporal self-attention, which is
essential for generating high-resolution videos with temporal consistency.
However, the high compression inherently limits the representation of fine
details. To address this, our VAE decoder is tasked with both latent-to-pixel
conversion and the final denoising step, producing the clean result directly in
pixel space. This approach preserves the ability to generate fine details
without incurring the runtime cost of a separate upsampling module. Our model
supports diverse use cases, including text-to-video and image-to-video
generation, with both capabilities trained simultaneously. It achieves
faster-than-real-time generation, producing 5 seconds of 24 fps video at
768x512 resolution in just 2 seconds on an Nvidia H100 GPU, outperforming all
existing models of similar scale. The source code and pre-trained models are
publicly available, setting a new benchmark for accessible and scalable video
generation.

---

## 5. [VideoRefer Suite: Advancing Spatial-Temporal Object Understanding with
  Video LLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.00599)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.00599](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00599)

**Authors**: Yuqian Yuan, Hang Zhang, Wentong Li, Zesen Cheng, Boqiang Zhang, Long Li, Xin Li, Deli Zhao, Wenqiao Zhang, Yueting Zhuang, Jianke Zhu, Lidong Bing

**Published**: 2024-12-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by YuqianYuan

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/damo-nlp-sg/videorefer) | [Project Page](https://damo-nlp-sg.github.io/VideoRefer/)

### Abstract

Video Large Language Models (Video LLMs) have recently exhibited remarkable
capabilities in general video understanding. However, they mainly focus on
holistic comprehension and struggle with capturing fine-grained spatial and
temporal details. Besides, the lack of high-quality object-level video
instruction data and a comprehensive benchmark further hinders their
advancements. To tackle these challenges, we introduce the VideoRefer Suite to
empower Video LLM for finer-level spatial-temporal video understanding, i.e.,
enabling perception and reasoning on any objects throughout the video.
Specially, we thoroughly develop VideoRefer Suite across three essential
aspects: dataset, model, and benchmark. Firstly, we introduce a multi-agent
data engine to meticulously curate a large-scale, high-quality object-level
video instruction dataset, termed VideoRefer-700K. Next, we present the
VideoRefer model, which equips a versatile spatial-temporal object encoder to
capture precise regional and sequential representations. Finally, we
meticulously create a VideoRefer-Bench to comprehensively assess the
spatial-temporal understanding capability of a Video LLM, evaluating it across
various aspects. Extensive experiments and analyses demonstrate that our
VideoRefer model not only achieves promising performance on video referring
benchmarks but also facilitates general video understanding capabilities.

---

## 6. [Reconstruction vs. Generation: Taming Optimization Dilemma in Latent
  Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01423)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01423](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01423)

**Authors**: Jingfeng Yao, Xinggang Wang

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Lunbin Zeng

**Upvotes**: 44

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hustvl/LightningDiT)

### Abstract

Latent diffusion models with Transformer architectures excel at generating
high-fidelity images. However, recent studies reveal an optimization dilemma in
this two-stage design: while increasing the per-token feature dimension in
visual tokenizers improves reconstruction quality, it requires substantially
larger diffusion models and more training iterations to achieve comparable
generation performance. Consequently, existing systems often settle for
sub-optimal solutions, either producing visual artifacts due to information
loss within tokenizers or failing to converge fully due to expensive
computation costs. We argue that this dilemma stems from the inherent
difficulty in learning unconstrained high-dimensional latent spaces. To address
this, we propose aligning the latent space with pre-trained vision foundation
models when training the visual tokenizers. Our proposed VA-VAE (Vision
foundation model Aligned Variational AutoEncoder) significantly expands the
reconstruction-generation frontier of latent diffusion models, enabling faster
convergence of Diffusion Transformers (DiT) in high-dimensional latent spaces.
To exploit the full potential of VA-VAE, we build an enhanced DiT baseline with
improved training strategies and architecture designs, termed LightningDiT. The
integrated system achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on ImageNet
256x256 generation with an FID score of 1.35 while demonstrating remarkable
training efficiency by reaching an FID score of 2.11 in just 64
epochs--representing an over 21 times convergence speedup compared to the
original DiT. Models and codes are available at:
https://github.com/hustvl/LightningDiT.

---

## 7. [MLLM-as-a-Judge for Image Safety without Human Labeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.00192)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.00192](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00192)

**Authors**: Zhenting Wang, Shuming Hu, Shiyu Zhao, Xiaowen Lin, Felix Juefei-Xu, Zhuowei Li, Ligong Han, Harihar Subramanyam, Li Chen, Jianfa Chen, Nan Jiang, Lingjuan Lyu, Shiqing Ma, Dimitris N. Metaxas, Ankit Jain

**Published**: 2024-12-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Zhenting Wang

**Upvotes**: 31

### Abstract

Image content safety has become a significant challenge with the rise of
visual media on online platforms. Meanwhile, in the age of AI-generated content
(AIGC), many image generation models are capable of producing harmful content,
such as images containing sexual or violent material. Thus, it becomes crucial
to identify such unsafe images based on established safety rules. Pre-trained
Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) offer potential in this regard, given
their strong pattern recognition abilities. Existing approaches typically
fine-tune MLLMs with human-labeled datasets, which however brings a series of
drawbacks. First, relying on human annotators to label data following intricate
and detailed guidelines is both expensive and labor-intensive. Furthermore,
users of safety judgment systems may need to frequently update safety rules,
making fine-tuning on human-based annotation more challenging. This raises the
research question: Can we detect unsafe images by querying MLLMs in a zero-shot
setting using a predefined safety constitution (a set of safety rules)? Our
research showed that simply querying pre-trained MLLMs does not yield
satisfactory results. This lack of effectiveness stems from factors such as the
subjectivity of safety rules, the complexity of lengthy constitutions, and the
inherent biases in the models. To address these challenges, we propose a
MLLM-based method includes objectifying safety rules, assessing the relevance
between rules and images, making quick judgments based on debiased token
probabilities with logically complete yet simplified precondition chains for
safety rules, and conducting more in-depth reasoning with cascaded
chain-of-thought processes if necessary. Experiment results demonstrate that
our method is highly effective for zero-shot image safety judgment tasks.

---

## 8. [ProgCo: Program Helps Self-Correction of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01264)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01264](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01264)

**Authors**: Xiaoshuai Song, Yanan Wu, Weixun Wang, Jiaheng Liu, Wenbo Su, Bo Zheng

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by KABI

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/songxiaoshuai/progco)

### Abstract

Self-Correction aims to enable large language models (LLMs) to self-verify
and self-refine their initial responses without external feedback. However,
LLMs often fail to effectively self-verify and generate correct feedback,
further misleading refinement and leading to the failure of self-correction,
especially in complex reasoning tasks. In this paper, we propose Program-driven
Self-Correction (ProgCo). First, program-driven verification (ProgVe) achieves
complex verification logic and extensive validation through self-generated,
self-executing verification pseudo-programs. Then, program-driven refinement
(ProgRe) receives feedback from ProgVe, conducts dual reflection and refinement
on both responses and verification programs to mitigate misleading of incorrect
feedback in complex reasoning tasks. Experiments on three instruction-following
and mathematical benchmarks indicate that ProgCo achieves effective
self-correction, and can be further enhance performance when combined with real
program tools.

---

## 9. [MapEval: A Map-Based Evaluation of Geo-Spatial Reasoning in Foundation
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.00316)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.00316](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00316)

**Authors**: Mahir Labib Dihan, Md Tanvir Hassan, Md Tanvir Parvez, Md Hasebul Hasan, Md Almash Alam, Muhammad Aamir Cheema, Mohammed Eunus Ali, Md Rizwan Parvez

**Published**: 2024-12-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Mahir Labib Dihan

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MapEval/MapEval-Textual) | [Project Page](https://mapeval.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in foundation models have enhanced AI systems'
capabilities in autonomous tool usage and reasoning. However, their ability in
location or map-based reasoning - which improves daily life by optimizing
navigation, facilitating resource discovery, and streamlining logistics - has
not been systematically studied. To bridge this gap, we introduce MapEval, a
benchmark designed to assess diverse and complex map-based user queries with
geo-spatial reasoning. MapEval features three task types (textual, API-based,
and visual) that require collecting world information via map tools, processing
heterogeneous geo-spatial contexts (e.g., named entities, travel distances,
user reviews or ratings, images), and compositional reasoning, which all
state-of-the-art foundation models find challenging. Comprising 700 unique
multiple-choice questions about locations across 180 cities and 54 countries,
MapEval evaluates foundation models' ability to handle spatial relationships,
map infographics, travel planning, and navigation challenges. Using MapEval, we
conducted a comprehensive evaluation of 28 prominent foundation models. While
no single model excelled across all tasks, Claude-3.5-Sonnet, GPT-4o, and
Gemini-1.5-Pro achieved competitive performance overall. However, substantial
performance gaps emerged, particularly in MapEval, where agents with
Claude-3.5-Sonnet outperformed GPT-4o and Gemini-1.5-Pro by 16% and 21%,
respectively, and the gaps became even more amplified when compared to
open-source LLMs. Our detailed analyses provide insights into the strengths and
weaknesses of current models, though all models still fall short of human
performance by more than 20% on average, struggling with complex map images and
rigorous geo-spatial reasoning. This gap highlights MapEval's critical role in
advancing general-purpose foundation models with stronger geo-spatial
understanding.

---

## 10. [A3: Android Agent Arena for Mobile GUI Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01149)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01149](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01149)

**Authors**: Yuxiang Chai, Hanhao Li, Jiayu Zhang, Liang Liu, Guozhi Wang, Shuai Ren, Siyuan Huang, Hongsheng Li

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Yuxiang Chai

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/YuxiangChai/A3) | [Project Page](https://yuxiangchai.github.io/Android-Agent-Arena/)

### Abstract

AI agents have become increasingly prevalent in recent years, driven by
significant advancements in the field of large language models (LLMs). Mobile
GUI agents, a subset of AI agents, are designed to autonomously perform tasks
on mobile devices. While numerous studies have introduced agents, datasets, and
benchmarks to advance mobile GUI agent research, many existing datasets focus
on static frame evaluations and fail to provide a comprehensive platform for
assessing performance on real-world, in-the-wild tasks. To address this gap, we
present Android Agent Arena (A3), a novel evaluation platform. Unlike existing
in-the-wild systems, A3 offers: (1) meaningful and practical tasks, such as
real-time online information retrieval and operational instructions; (2) a
larger, more flexible action space, enabling compatibility with agents trained
on any dataset; and (3) automated business-level LLM-based evaluation process.
A3 includes 21 widely used general third-party apps and 201 tasks
representative of common user scenarios, providing a robust foundation for
evaluating mobile GUI agents in real-world situations and a new autonomous
evaluation process for less human labor and coding expertise. The project is
available at https://yuxiangchai.github.io/Android-Agent-Arena/.

---

## 11. [Unifying Specialized Visual Encoders for Video Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01426)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01426](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01426)

**Authors**: Jihoon Chung, Tyler Zhu, Max Gonzalez Saez-Diez, Juan Carlos Niebles, Honglu Zhou, Olga Russakovsky

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Tyler Zhu

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/princetonvisualai/merv) | [Project Page](https://tylerzhu.com/merv)

### Abstract

The recent advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) has ushered sophisticated
reasoning capabilities into the realm of video through Video Large Language
Models (VideoLLMs). However, VideoLLMs currently rely on a single vision
encoder for all of their visual processing, which limits the amount and type of
visual information that can be conveyed to the LLM. Our method, MERV,
Multi-Encoder Representation of Videos, instead leverages multiple frozen
visual encoders to create a unified representation of a video, providing the
VideoLLM with a comprehensive set of specialized visual knowledge.
Spatio-temporally aligning the features from each encoder allows us to tackle a
wider range of open-ended and multiple-choice video understanding questions and
outperform prior state-of-the-art works. MERV is up to 3.7% better in accuracy
than Video-LLaVA across the standard suite video understanding benchmarks,
while also having a better Video-ChatGPT score. We also improve upon SeViLA,
the previous best on zero-shot Perception Test accuracy, by 2.2%. MERV
introduces minimal extra parameters and trains faster than equivalent
single-encoder methods while parallelizing the visual processing. Finally, we
provide qualitative evidence that MERV successfully captures domain knowledge
from each of its encoders. Our results offer promising directions in utilizing
multiple vision encoders for comprehensive video understanding.

---

## 12. [Dynamic Scaling of Unit Tests for Code Reward Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01054)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01054](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01054)

**Authors**: Zeyao Ma, Xiaokang Zhang, Jing Zhang, Jifan Yu, Sijia Luo, Jie Tang

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Zeyao Ma

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/RUCKBReasoning/CodeRM) | [Project Page](https://code-reward-model.github.io/)

### Abstract

Current large language models (LLMs) often struggle to produce accurate
responses on the first attempt for complex reasoning tasks like code
generation. Prior research tackles this challenge by generating multiple
candidate solutions and validating them with LLM-generated unit tests. The
execution results of unit tests serve as reward signals to identify correct
solutions. As LLMs always confidently make mistakes, these unit tests are not
reliable, thereby diminishing the quality of reward signals. Motivated by the
observation that scaling the number of solutions improves LLM performance, we
explore the impact of scaling unit tests to enhance reward signal quality. Our
pioneer experiment reveals a positive correlation between the number of unit
tests and reward signal quality, with greater benefits observed in more
challenging problems. Based on these insights, we propose CodeRM-8B, a
lightweight yet effective unit test generator that enables efficient and
high-quality unit test scaling. Additionally, we implement a dynamic scaling
mechanism that adapts the number of unit tests based on problem difficulty,
further improving efficiency. Experimental results show that our approach
significantly improves performance across various models on three benchmarks
(e.g., with gains of 18.43% for Llama3-8B and 3.42% for GPT-4o-mini on
HumanEval Plus).

---

## 13. [SeedVR: Seeding Infinity in Diffusion Transformer Towards Generic Video
  Restoration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01320)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01320](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01320)

**Organization**: ByteDance Seed

**Authors**: Jianyi Wang, Zhijie Lin, Meng Wei, Yang Zhao, Ceyuan Yang, Chen Change Loy, Lu Jiang

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by JIANYI WANG

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/IceClear/SeedVR) | [Project Page](https://iceclear.github.io/projects/seedvr/)

### Abstract

Video restoration poses non-trivial challenges in maintaining fidelity while
recovering temporally consistent details from unknown degradations in the wild.
Despite recent advances in diffusion-based restoration, these methods often
face limitations in generation capability and sampling efficiency. In this
work, we present SeedVR, a diffusion transformer designed to handle real-world
video restoration with arbitrary length and resolution. The core design of
SeedVR lies in the shifted window attention that facilitates effective
restoration on long video sequences. SeedVR further supports variable-sized
windows near the boundary of both spatial and temporal dimensions, overcoming
the resolution constraints of traditional window attention. Equipped with
contemporary practices, including causal video autoencoder, mixed image and
video training, and progressive training, SeedVR achieves highly-competitive
performance on both synthetic and real-world benchmarks, as well as
AI-generated videos. Extensive experiments demonstrate SeedVR's superiority
over existing methods for generic video restoration.

---

## 14. [Nested Attention: Semantic-aware Attention Values for Concept
  Personalization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01407)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01407](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01407)

**Authors**: Or Patashnik, Rinon Gal, Daniil Ostashev, Sergey Tulyakov, Kfir Aberman, Daniel Cohen-Or

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Or Patashnik

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Personalizing text-to-image models to generate images of specific subjects
across diverse scenes and styles is a rapidly advancing field. Current
approaches often face challenges in maintaining a balance between identity
preservation and alignment with the input text prompt. Some methods rely on a
single textual token to represent a subject, which limits expressiveness, while
others employ richer representations but disrupt the model's prior, diminishing
prompt alignment. In this work, we introduce Nested Attention, a novel
mechanism that injects a rich and expressive image representation into the
model's existing cross-attention layers. Our key idea is to generate
query-dependent subject values, derived from nested attention layers that learn
to select relevant subject features for each region in the generated image. We
integrate these nested layers into an encoder-based personalization method, and
show that they enable high identity preservation while adhering to input text
prompts. Our approach is general and can be trained on various domains.
Additionally, its prior preservation allows us to combine multiple personalized
subjects from different domains in a single image.

---

## 15. [MapQaTor: A System for Efficient Annotation of Map Query Datasets](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.21015)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.21015](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21015)

**Authors**: Mahir Labib Dihan, Mohammed Eunus Ali, Md Rizwan Parvez

**Published**: 2024-12-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Mahir Labib Dihan

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MapQaTor/mapqator-backend) | [Project Page](https://mapqator.github.io/project/)

### Abstract

Mapping and navigation services like Google Maps, Apple Maps, Openstreet
Maps, are essential for accessing various location-based data, yet they often
struggle to handle natural language geospatial queries. Recent advancements in
Large Language Models (LLMs) show promise in question answering (QA), but
creating reliable geospatial QA datasets from map services remains challenging.
We introduce MapQaTor, a web application that streamlines the creation of
reproducible, traceable map-based QA datasets. With its plug-and-play
architecture, MapQaTor enables seamless integration with any maps API, allowing
users to gather and visualize data from diverse sources with minimal setup. By
caching API responses, the platform ensures consistent ground truth, enhancing
the reliability of the data even as real-world information evolves. MapQaTor
centralizes data retrieval, annotation, and visualization within a single
platform, offering a unique opportunity to evaluate the current state of
LLM-based geospatial reasoning while advancing their capabilities for improved
geospatial understanding. Evaluation metrics show that, MapQaTor speeds up the
annotation process by at least 30 times compared to manual methods,
underscoring its potential for developing geospatial resources, such as complex
map reasoning datasets. The website is live at: https://mapqator.github.io/ and
a demo video is available at: https://youtu.be/7_aV9Wmhs6Q.

---

## 16. [Understanding and Mitigating Bottlenecks of State Space Models through
  the Lens of Recency and Over-smoothing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.00658)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.00658](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00658)

**Authors**: Peihao Wang, Ruisi Cai, Yuehao Wang, Jiajun Zhu, Pragya Srivastava, Zhangyang Wang, Pan Li

**Published**: 2024-12-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Peihao Wang

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vita-group/ssm-bottleneck)

### Abstract

Structured State Space Models (SSMs) have emerged as alternatives to
transformers. While SSMs are often regarded as effective in capturing
long-sequence dependencies, we rigorously demonstrate that they are inherently
limited by strong recency bias. Our empirical studies also reveal that this
bias impairs the models' ability to recall distant information and introduces
robustness issues. Our scaling experiments then discovered that deeper
structures in SSMs can facilitate the learning of long contexts. However,
subsequent theoretical analysis reveals that as SSMs increase in depth, they
exhibit another inevitable tendency toward over-smoothing, e.g., token
representations becoming increasingly indistinguishable. This fundamental
dilemma between recency and over-smoothing hinders the scalability of existing
SSMs. Inspired by our theoretical findings, we propose to polarize two channels
of the state transition matrices in SSMs, setting them to zero and one,
respectively, simultaneously addressing recency bias and over-smoothing.
Experiments demonstrate that our polarization technique consistently enhances
the associative recall accuracy of long-range tokens and unlocks SSMs to
benefit further from deeper architectures. All source codes are released at
https://github.com/VITA-Group/SSM-Bottleneck.

---

## 17. [Population Aware Diffusion for Time Series Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.00910)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.00910](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00910)

**Authors**: Yang Li, Han Meng, Zhenyu Bi, Ingolv T. Urnes, Haipeng Chen

**Published**: 2025-01-01 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Yang Li

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wmd3i/PaD-TS)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have shown promising ability in generating high-quality time
series (TS) data. Despite the initial success, existing works mostly focus on
the authenticity of data at the individual level, but pay less attention to
preserving the population-level properties on the entire dataset. Such
population-level properties include value distributions for each dimension and
distributions of certain functional dependencies (e.g., cross-correlation, CC)
between different dimensions. For instance, when generating house energy
consumption TS data, the value distributions of the outside temperature and the
kitchen temperature should be preserved, as well as the distribution of CC
between them. Preserving such TS population-level properties is critical in
maintaining the statistical insights of the datasets, mitigating model bias,
and augmenting downstream tasks like TS prediction. Yet, it is often overlooked
by existing models. Hence, data generated by existing models often bear
distribution shifts from the original data. We propose Population-aware
Diffusion for Time Series (PaD-TS), a new TS generation model that better
preserves the population-level properties. The key novelties of PaD-TS include
1) a new training method explicitly incorporating TS population-level property
preservation, and 2) a new dual-channel encoder model architecture that better
captures the TS data structure. Empirical results in major benchmark datasets
show that PaD-TS can improve the average CC distribution shift score between
real and synthetic data by 5.9x while maintaining a performance comparable to
state-of-the-art models on individual-level authenticity.

---

## 18. [Rethinking Addressing in Language Models via Contexualized Equivariant
  Positional Encoding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.00712)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.00712](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00712)

**Authors**: Jiajun Zhu, Peihao Wang, Ruisi Cai, Jason D. Lee, Pan Li, Zhangyang Wang

**Published**: 2025-01-01 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Jiajun Zhu

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vita-group/tape)

### Abstract

Transformers rely on both content-based and position-based addressing
mechanisms to make predictions, but existing positional encoding techniques
often diminish the effectiveness of position-based addressing. Many current
methods enforce rigid patterns in attention maps, limiting the ability to model
long-range dependencies and adapt to diverse tasks. Additionally, most
positional encodings are learned as general biases, lacking the specialization
required for different instances within a dataset. To address this, we propose
conTextualized equivariAnt Position
Embedding (TAPE), a novel framework that enhances
positional embeddings by incorporating sequence content across layers. TAPE
introduces dynamic, context-aware positional encodings, overcoming the
constraints of traditional fixed patterns. By enforcing permutation and
orthogonal equivariance, TAPE ensures the stability of positional encodings
during updates, improving robustness and adaptability. Our method can be easily
integrated into pre-trained transformers, offering parameter-efficient
fine-tuning with minimal overhead. Extensive experiments shows that TAPE
achieves superior performance in language modeling, arithmetic reasoning, and
long-context retrieval tasks compared to existing positional embedding
techniques.

---

## 19. [SeFAR: Semi-supervised Fine-grained Action Recognition with Temporal
  Perturbation and Learning Stabilization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01245)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01245](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01245)

**Authors**: Yongle Huang, Haodong Chen, Zhenbang Xu, Zihan Jia, Haozhou Sun, Dian Shao

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-03 by Harold Chen

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kylehuang9/sefar)

### Abstract

Human action understanding is crucial for the advancement of multimodal
systems. While recent developments, driven by powerful large language models
(LLMs), aim to be general enough to cover a wide range of categories, they
often overlook the need for more specific capabilities. In this work, we
address the more challenging task of Fine-grained Action Recognition (FAR),
which focuses on detailed semantic labels within shorter temporal duration
(e.g., "salto backward tucked with 1 turn"). Given the high costs of annotating
fine-grained labels and the substantial data needed for fine-tuning LLMs, we
propose to adopt semi-supervised learning (SSL). Our framework, SeFAR,
incorporates several innovative designs to tackle these challenges.
Specifically, to capture sufficient visual details, we construct Dual-level
temporal elements as more effective representations, based on which we design a
new strong augmentation strategy for the Teacher-Student learning paradigm
through involving moderate temporal perturbation. Furthermore, to handle the
high uncertainty within the teacher model's predictions for FAR, we propose the
Adaptive Regulation to stabilize the learning process. Experiments show that
SeFAR achieves state-of-the-art performance on two FAR datasets, FineGym and
FineDiving, across various data scopes. It also outperforms other
semi-supervised methods on two classical coarse-grained datasets, UCF101 and
HMDB51. Further analysis and ablation studies validate the effectiveness of our
designs. Additionally, we show that the features extracted by our SeFAR could
largely promote the ability of multimodal foundation models to understand
fine-grained and domain-specific semantics.

---
