# Daily Papers - 2025-01-06

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-01-06)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [EnerVerse: Envisioning Embodied Future Space for Robotics Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01895)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01895](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01895)

**Authors**: Siyuan Huang, Liliang Chen, Pengfei Zhou, Shengcong Chen, Zhengkai Jiang, Yue Hu, Peng Gao, Hongsheng Li, Maoqing Yao, Guanghui Ren

**Published**: 2025-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-06 by Siyuan

**Upvotes**: 55

**Links**: [Project Page](https://sites.google.com/view/enerverse)

### Abstract

We introduce EnerVerse, a comprehensive framework for embodied future space
generation specifically designed for robotic manipulation tasks. EnerVerse
seamlessly integrates convolutional and bidirectional attention mechanisms for
inner-chunk space modeling, ensuring low-level consistency and continuity.
Recognizing the inherent redundancy in video data, we propose a sparse memory
context combined with a chunkwise unidirectional generative paradigm to enable
the generation of infinitely long sequences. To further augment robotic
capabilities, we introduce the Free Anchor View (FAV) space, which provides
flexible perspectives to enhance observation and analysis. The FAV space
mitigates motion modeling ambiguity, removes physical constraints in confined
environments, and significantly improves the robot's generalization and
adaptability across various tasks and settings. To address the prohibitive
costs and labor intensity of acquiring multi-camera observations, we present a
data engine pipeline that integrates a generative model with 4D Gaussian
Splatting (4DGS). This pipeline leverages the generative model's robust
generalization capabilities and the spatial constraints provided by 4DGS,
enabling an iterative enhancement of data quality and diversity, thus creating
a data flywheel effect that effectively narrows the sim-to-real gap. Finally,
our experiments demonstrate that the embodied future space generation prior
substantially enhances policy predictive capabilities, resulting in improved
overall performance, particularly in long-range robotic manipulation tasks.

---

## 2. [VITA-1.5: Towards GPT-4o Level Real-Time Vision and Speech Interaction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01957)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01957](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01957)

**Authors**: Chaoyou Fu, Haojia Lin, Xiong Wang, Yi-Fan Zhang, Yunhang Shen, Xiaoyu Liu, Yangze Li, Zuwei Long, Heting Gao, Ke Li, Xiawu Zheng, Rongrong Ji, Xing Sun, Caifeng Shan, Ran He

**Published**: 2025-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 47

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/VITA-MLLM/VITA)

### Abstract

Recent Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have typically focused on
integrating visual and textual modalities, with less emphasis placed on the
role of speech in enhancing interaction. However, speech plays a crucial role
in multimodal dialogue systems, and implementing high-performance in both
vision and speech tasks remains a significant challenge due to the fundamental
modality differences. In this paper, we propose a carefully designed
multi-stage training methodology that progressively trains LLM to understand
both visual and speech information, ultimately enabling fluent vision and
speech interaction. Our approach not only preserves strong vision-language
capacity, but also enables efficient speech-to-speech dialogue capabilities
without separate ASR and TTS modules, significantly accelerating multimodal
end-to-end response speed. By comparing our method against state-of-the-art
counterparts across benchmarks for image, video, and speech tasks, we
demonstrate that our model is equipped with both strong visual and speech
capabilities, making near real-time vision and speech interaction.

---

## 3. [Virgo: A Preliminary Exploration on Reproducing o1-like MLLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01904)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01904](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01904)

**Authors**: Yifan Du, Zikang Liu, Yifan Li, Wayne Xin Zhao, Yuqi Huo, Bingning Wang, Weipeng Chen, Zheng Liu, Zhongyuan Wang, Ji-Rong Wen

**Published**: 2025-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

Recently, slow-thinking reasoning systems, built upon large language models
(LLMs), have garnered widespread attention by scaling the thinking time during
inference. There is also growing interest in adapting this capability to
multimodal large language models (MLLMs). Given that MLLMs handle more complex
data semantics across different modalities, it is intuitively more challenging
to implement multimodal slow-thinking systems.
  To address this issue, in this paper, we explore a straightforward approach
by fine-tuning a capable MLLM with a small amount of textual long-form thought
data, resulting in a multimodal slow-thinking system, Virgo (Visual reasoning
with long thought). We find that these long-form reasoning processes, expressed
in natural language, can be effectively transferred to MLLMs. Moreover, it
seems that such textual reasoning data can be even more effective than visual
reasoning data in eliciting the slow-thinking capacities of MLLMs. While this
work is preliminary, it demonstrates that slow-thinking capacities are
fundamentally associated with the language model component, which can be
transferred across modalities or domains. This finding can be leveraged to
guide the development of more powerful slow-thinking reasoning systems. We
release our resources at https://github.com/RUCAIBox/Virgo.

---

## 4. [SDPO: Segment-Level Direct Preference Optimization for Social Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01821)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01821](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01821)

**Authors**: Aobo Kong, Wentao Ma, Shiwan Zhao, Yongbin Li, Yuchuan Wu, Ke Wang, Xiaoqian Liu, Qicheng Li, Yong Qin, Fei Huang

**Published**: 2025-01-03 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-06 by Aobo Kong

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/alibabaresearch/damo-convai)

### Abstract

Social agents powered by large language models (LLMs) can simulate human
social behaviors but fall short in handling complex goal-oriented social
dialogues. Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) has proven effective in
aligning LLM behavior with human preferences across a variety of agent tasks.
Existing DPO-based approaches for multi-turn interactions are divided into
turn-level and session-level methods. The turn-level method is overly
fine-grained, focusing exclusively on individual turns, while session-level
methods are too coarse-grained, often introducing training noise. To address
these limitations, we propose Segment-Level Direct Preference Optimization
(SDPO), which focuses on specific key segments within interactions to optimize
multi-turn agent behavior while minimizing training noise. Evaluations on the
SOTOPIA benchmark demonstrate that SDPO-tuned agents consistently outperform
both existing DPO-based methods and proprietary LLMs like GPT-4o, underscoring
SDPO's potential to advance the social intelligence of LLM-based agents. We
release our code and data at
https://github.com/AlibabaResearch/DAMO-ConvAI/tree/main/SDPO.

---

## 5. [VisionReward: Fine-Grained Multi-Dimensional Human Preference Learning
  for Image and Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.21059)

**ArXiv ID**: [2412.21059](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21059)

**Authors**: Jiazheng Xu, Yu Huang, Jiale Cheng, Yuanming Yang, Jiajun Xu, Yuan Wang, Wenbo Duan, Shen Yang, Qunlin Jin, Shurun Li, Jiayan Teng, Zhuoyi Yang, Wendi Zheng, Xiao Liu, Ming Ding, Xiaohan Zhang, Xiaotao Gu, Shiyu Huang, Minlie Huang, Jie Tang, Yuxiao Dong

**Published**: 2024-12-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-06 by Jiazheng Xu

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thudm/visionreward)

### Abstract

We present a general strategy to aligning visual generation models -- both
image and video generation -- with human preference. To start with, we build
VisionReward -- a fine-grained and multi-dimensional reward model. We decompose
human preferences in images and videos into multiple dimensions, each
represented by a series of judgment questions, linearly weighted and summed to
an interpretable and accurate score. To address the challenges of video quality
assessment, we systematically analyze various dynamic features of videos, which
helps VisionReward surpass VideoScore by 17.2% and achieve top performance for
video preference prediction. Based on VisionReward, we develop a
multi-objective preference learning algorithm that effectively addresses the
issue of confounding factors within preference data. Our approach significantly
outperforms existing image and video scoring methods on both machine metrics
and human evaluation. All code and datasets are provided at
https://github.com/THUDM/VisionReward.

---

## 6. [Graph Generative Pre-trained Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01073)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01073](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01073)

**Authors**: Xiaohui Chen, Yinkai Wang, Jiaxing He, Yuanqi Du, Soha Hassoun, Xiaolin Xu, Li-Ping Liu

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-06 by Xiang Liu

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tufts-ml/G2PT)

### Abstract

Graph generation is a critical task in numerous domains, including molecular
design and social network analysis, due to its ability to model complex
relationships and structured data. While most modern graph generative models
utilize adjacency matrix representations, this work revisits an alternative
approach that represents graphs as sequences of node set and edge set. We
advocate for this approach due to its efficient encoding of graphs and propose
a novel representation. Based on this representation, we introduce the Graph
Generative Pre-trained Transformer (G2PT), an auto-regressive model that learns
graph structures via next-token prediction. To further exploit G2PT's
capabilities as a general-purpose foundation model, we explore fine-tuning
strategies for two downstream applications: goal-oriented generation and graph
property prediction. We conduct extensive experiments across multiple datasets.
Results indicate that G2PT achieves superior generative performance on both
generic graph and molecule datasets. Furthermore, G2PT exhibits strong
adaptability and versatility in downstream tasks from molecular design to
property prediction.

---

## 7. [LUSIFER: Language Universal Space Integration for Enhanced Multilingual
  Embeddings with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.00874)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.00874](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00874)

**Authors**: Hieu Man, Nghia Trung Ngo, Viet Dac Lai, Ryan A. Rossi, Franck Dernoncourt, Thien Huu Nguyen

**Published**: 2025-01-01 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-06 by Franck Dernoncourt

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hieum98/lusifer)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) based embedding models
have established new state-of-the-art benchmarks for text embedding tasks,
particularly in dense vector-based retrieval. However, these models
predominantly focus on English, leaving multilingual embedding capabilities
largely unexplored. To address this limitation, we present LUSIFER, a novel
zero-shot approach that adapts LLM-based embedding models for multilingual
tasks without requiring multilingual supervision. LUSIFER's architecture
combines a multilingual encoder, serving as a language-universal learner, with
an LLM-based embedding model optimized for embedding-specific tasks. These
components are seamlessly integrated through a minimal set of trainable
parameters that act as a connector, effectively transferring the multilingual
encoder's language understanding capabilities to the specialized embedding
model. Additionally, to comprehensively evaluate multilingual embedding
performance, we introduce a new benchmark encompassing 5 primary embedding
tasks, 123 diverse datasets, and coverage across 14 languages. Extensive
experimental results demonstrate that LUSIFER significantly enhances the
multilingual performance across various embedding tasks, particularly for
medium and low-resource languages, without requiring explicit multilingual
training data.

---

## 8. [BoxingGym: Benchmarking Progress in Automated Experimental Design and
  Model Discovery](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.01540)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.01540](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01540)

**Authors**: Kanishk Gandhi, Michael Y. Li, Lyle Goodyear, Louise Li, Aditi Bhaskar, Mohammed Zaman, Noah D. Goodman

**Published**: 2025-01-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-06 by Kanishk Gandhi

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kanishkg/boxing-gym)

### Abstract

Understanding the world and explaining it with scientific theories is a
central aspiration of artificial intelligence research. Proposing theories,
designing experiments to test them, and then revising them based on data are
fundamental to scientific discovery. Despite the significant promise of
LLM-based scientific agents, no benchmarks systematically test LLM's ability to
propose scientific models, collect experimental data, and revise them in light
of new data. We introduce BoxingGym, a benchmark with 10 environments for
systematically evaluating both experimental design (e.g. collecting data to
test a scientific theory) and model discovery (e.g. proposing and revising
scientific theories). To enable tractable and quantitative evaluation, we
implement each environment as a generative probabilistic model with which a
scientific agent can run interactive experiments. These probabilistic models
are drawn from various real-world scientific domains ranging from psychology to
ecology. To quantitatively evaluate a scientific agent's ability to collect
informative experimental data, we compute the expected information gain (EIG),
an information-theoretic quantity which measures how much an experiment reduces
uncertainty about the parameters of a generative model. A good scientific
theory is a concise and predictive explanation. Therefore, to quantitatively
evaluate model discovery, we ask a scientific agent to explain their model and
then assess whether this explanation enables another scientific agent to make
reliable predictions about this environment. In addition to this
explanation-based evaluation, we compute standard model evaluation metrics such
as prediction errors. We find that current LLMs, such as GPT-4o, struggle with
both experimental design and model discovery. We find that augmenting the
LLM-based agent with an explicit statistical model does not reliably improve
these results.

---
