# Daily Papers - 2025-01-09

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-01-09)

Total papers: 13

---

## 1. [rStar-Math: Small LLMs Can Master Math Reasoning with Self-Evolved Deep
  Thinking](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.04519)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.04519](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04519)

**Authors**: Xinyu Guan, Li Lyna Zhang, Yifei Liu, Ning Shang, Youran Sun, Yi Zhu, Fan Yang, Mao Yang

**Published**: 2025-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by Li Lyna Zhang

**Upvotes**: 288

### Abstract

We present rStar-Math to demonstrate that small language models (SLMs) can
rival or even surpass the math reasoning capability of OpenAI o1, without
distillation from superior models. rStar-Math achieves this by exercising "deep
thinking" through Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS), where a math policy SLM
performs test-time search guided by an SLM-based process reward model.
rStar-Math introduces three innovations to tackle the challenges in training
the two SLMs: (1) a novel code-augmented CoT data sythesis method, which
performs extensive MCTS rollouts to generate step-by-step verified reasoning
trajectories used to train the policy SLM; (2) a novel process reward model
training method that avoids na\"ive step-level score annotation, yielding a
more effective process preference model (PPM); (3) a self-evolution recipe in
which the policy SLM and PPM are built from scratch and iteratively evolved to
improve reasoning capabilities. Through 4 rounds of self-evolution with
millions of synthesized solutions for 747k math problems, rStar-Math boosts
SLMs' math reasoning to state-of-the-art levels. On the MATH benchmark, it
improves Qwen2.5-Math-7B from 58.8% to 90.0% and Phi3-mini-3.8B from 41.4% to
86.4%, surpassing o1-preview by +4.5% and +0.9%. On the USA Math Olympiad
(AIME), rStar-Math solves an average of 53.3% (8/15) of problems, ranking among
the top 20% the brightest high school math students. Code and data will be
available at https://github.com/microsoft/rStar.

---

## 2. [Search-o1: Agentic Search-Enhanced Large Reasoning Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.05366)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.05366](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05366)

**Authors**: Xiaoxi Li, Guanting Dong, Jiajie Jin, Yuyao Zhang, Yujia Zhou, Yutao Zhu, Peitian Zhang, Zhicheng Dou

**Published**: 2025-01-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by KABI

**Upvotes**: 102

### Abstract

Large reasoning models (LRMs) like OpenAI-o1 have demonstrated impressive
long stepwise reasoning capabilities through large-scale reinforcement
learning. However, their extended reasoning processes often suffer from
knowledge insufficiency, leading to frequent uncertainties and potential
errors. To address this limitation, we introduce Search-o1, a
framework that enhances LRMs with an agentic retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) mechanism and a Reason-in-Documents module for refining retrieved
documents. Search-o1 integrates an agentic search workflow into the reasoning
process, enabling dynamic retrieval of external knowledge when LRMs encounter
uncertain knowledge points. Additionally, due to the verbose nature of
retrieved documents, we design a separate Reason-in-Documents module to deeply
analyze the retrieved information before injecting it into the reasoning chain,
minimizing noise and preserving coherent reasoning flow. Extensive experiments
on complex reasoning tasks in science, mathematics, and coding, as well as six
open-domain QA benchmarks, demonstrate the strong performance of Search-o1.
This approach enhances the trustworthiness and applicability of LRMs in complex
reasoning tasks, paving the way for more reliable and versatile intelligent
systems. The code is available at
https://github.com/sunnynexus/Search-o1.

---

## 3. [Towards System 2 Reasoning in LLMs: Learning How to Think With Meta
  Chain-of-Though](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.04682)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.04682](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04682)

**Authors**: Violet Xiang, Charlie Snell, Kanishk Gandhi, Alon Albalak, Anikait Singh, Chase Blagden, Duy Phung, Rafael Rafailov, Nathan Lile, Dakota Mahan, Louis Castricato, Jan-Philipp Franken, Nick Haber, Chelsea Finn

**Published**: 2025-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 99

### Abstract

We propose a novel framework, Meta Chain-of-Thought (Meta-CoT), which extends
traditional Chain-of-Thought (CoT) by explicitly modeling the underlying
reasoning required to arrive at a particular CoT. We present empirical evidence
from state-of-the-art models exhibiting behaviors consistent with in-context
search, and explore methods for producing Meta-CoT via process supervision,
synthetic data generation, and search algorithms. Finally, we outline a
concrete pipeline for training a model to produce Meta-CoTs, incorporating
instruction tuning with linearized search traces and reinforcement learning
post-training. Finally, we discuss open research questions, including scaling
laws, verifier roles, and the potential for discovering novel reasoning
algorithms. This work provides a theoretical and practical roadmap to enable
Meta-CoT in LLMs, paving the way for more powerful and human-like reasoning in
artificial intelligence.

---

## 4. [Agent Laboratory: Using LLM Agents as Research Assistants](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.04227)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.04227](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04227)

**Authors**: Samuel Schmidgall, Yusheng Su, Ze Wang, Ximeng Sun, Jialian Wu, Xiaodong Yu, Jiang Liu, Zicheng Liu, Emad Barsoum

**Published**: 2025-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by AK

**Upvotes**: 95

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Masao-Taketani/LocalAgentLaboratory) | [Project Page](https://agentlaboratory.github.io/)

### Abstract

Historically, scientific discovery has been a lengthy and costly process,
demanding substantial time and resources from initial conception to final
results. To accelerate scientific discovery, reduce research costs, and improve
research quality, we introduce Agent Laboratory, an autonomous LLM-based
framework capable of completing the entire research process. This framework
accepts a human-provided research idea and progresses through three
stages--literature review, experimentation, and report writing to produce
comprehensive research outputs, including a code repository and a research
report, while enabling users to provide feedback and guidance at each stage. We
deploy Agent Laboratory with various state-of-the-art LLMs and invite multiple
researchers to assess its quality by participating in a survey, providing human
feedback to guide the research process, and then evaluate the final paper. We
found that: (1) Agent Laboratory driven by o1-preview generates the best
research outcomes; (2) The generated machine learning code is able to achieve
state-of-the-art performance compared to existing methods; (3) Human
involvement, providing feedback at each stage, significantly improves the
overall quality of research; (4) Agent Laboratory significantly reduces
research expenses, achieving an 84% decrease compared to previous autonomous
research methods. We hope Agent Laboratory enables researchers to allocate more
effort toward creative ideation rather than low-level coding and writing,
ultimately accelerating scientific discovery.

---

## 5. [URSA: Understanding and Verifying Chain-of-thought Reasoning in
  Multimodal Mathematics](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.04686)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.04686](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04686)

**Authors**: Ruilin Luo, Zhuofan Zheng, Yifan Wang, Yiyao Yu, Xinzhe Ni, Zicheng Lin, Jin Zeng, Yujiu Yang

**Published**: 2025-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by czl

**Upvotes**: 53

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/URSA-MATH/URSA-MATH) | [Project Page](https://ursa-math.github.io/)

### Abstract

Chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning has been widely applied in the mathematical
reasoning of Large Language Models (LLMs). Recently, the introduction of
derivative process supervision on CoT trajectories has sparked discussions on
enhancing scaling capabilities during test time, thereby boosting the potential
of these models. However, in multimodal mathematical reasoning, the scarcity of
high-quality CoT training data has hindered existing models from achieving
high-precision CoT reasoning and has limited the realization of reasoning
potential during test time. In this work, we propose a three-module synthesis
strategy that integrates CoT distillation, trajectory-format rewriting, and
format unification. It results in a high-quality CoT reasoning instruction
fine-tuning dataset in multimodal mathematics, MMathCoT-1M. We comprehensively
validate the state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance of the trained URSA-7B model
on multiple multimodal mathematical benchmarks. For test-time scaling, we
introduce a data synthesis strategy that automatically generates process
annotation datasets, known as DualMath-1.1M, focusing on both interpretation
and logic. By further training URSA-7B on DualMath-1.1M, we transition from CoT
reasoning capabilities to robust supervision abilities. The trained URSA-RM-7B
acts as a verifier, effectively enhancing the performance of URSA-7B at test
time. URSA-RM-7B also demonstrates excellent out-of-distribution (OOD)
verifying capabilities, showcasing its generalization. Model weights, training
data and code will be open-sourced.

---

## 6. [LLM4SR: A Survey on Large Language Models for Scientific Research](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.04306)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.04306](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04306)

**Authors**: Ziming Luo, Zonglin Yang, Zexin Xu, Wei Yang, Xinya Du

**Published**: 2025-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by Zonglin Yang

**Upvotes**: 35

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/du-nlp-lab/LLM4SR)

### Abstract

In recent years, the rapid advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has
transformed the landscape of scientific research, offering unprecedented
support across various stages of the research cycle. This paper presents the
first systematic survey dedicated to exploring how LLMs are revolutionizing the
scientific research process. We analyze the unique roles LLMs play across four
critical stages of research: hypothesis discovery, experiment planning and
implementation, scientific writing, and peer reviewing. Our review
comprehensively showcases the task-specific methodologies and evaluation
benchmarks. By identifying current challenges and proposing future research
directions, this survey not only highlights the transformative potential of
LLMs, but also aims to inspire and guide researchers and practitioners in
leveraging LLMs to advance scientific inquiry. Resources are available at the
following repository: https://github.com/du-nlp-lab/LLM4SR

---

## 7. [InfiGUIAgent: A Multimodal Generalist GUI Agent with Native Reasoning
  and Reflection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.04575)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.04575](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04575)

**Authors**: Yuhang Liu, Pengxiang Li, Zishu Wei, Congkai Xie, Xueyu Hu, Xinchen Xu, Shengyu Zhang, Xiaotian Han, Hongxia Yang, Fei Wu

**Published**: 2025-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by Pengxiang Li

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/reallm-labs/infiguiagent)

### Abstract

Graphical User Interface (GUI) Agents, powered by multimodal large language
models (MLLMs), have shown great potential for task automation on computing
devices such as computers and mobile phones. However, existing agents face
challenges in multi-step reasoning and reliance on textual annotations,
limiting their effectiveness. We introduce InfiGUIAgent, an MLLM-based
GUI Agent trained with a two-stage supervised fine-tuning pipeline. Stage 1
enhances fundamental skills such as GUI understanding and grounding, while
Stage 2 integrates hierarchical reasoning and expectation-reflection reasoning
skills using synthesized data to enable native reasoning abilities of the
agents. InfiGUIAgent achieves competitive performance on several GUI
benchmarks, highlighting the impact of native reasoning skills in enhancing GUI
interaction for automation tasks. Resources are available at
https://github.com/Reallm-Labs/InfiGUIAgent.

---

## 8. [GeAR: Generation Augmented Retrieval](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.02772)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.02772](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02772)

**Authors**: Haoyu Liu, Shaohan Huang, Jianfeng Liu, Yuefeng Zhan, Hao Sun, Weiwei Deng, Feng Sun, Furu Wei, Qi Zhang

**Published**: 2025-01-06 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by Haoyu Liu

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

Document retrieval techniques form the foundation for the development of
large-scale information systems. The prevailing methodology is to construct a
bi-encoder and compute the semantic similarity. However, such scalar similarity
is difficult to reflect enough information and impedes our comprehension of the
retrieval results. In addition, this computational process mainly emphasizes
the global semantics and ignores the fine-grained semantic relationship between
the query and the complex text in the document. In this paper, we propose a new
method called Generation Augmented Retrieval
(GeAR) that incorporates well-designed fusion and decoding modules.
This enables GeAR to generate the relevant text from documents based on the
fused representation of the query and the document, thus learning to "focus on"
the fine-grained information. Also when used as a retriever, GeAR does not add
any computational burden over bi-encoders. To support the training of the new
framework, we have introduced a pipeline to efficiently synthesize high-quality
data by utilizing large language models. GeAR exhibits competitive retrieval
and localization performance across diverse scenarios and datasets. Moreover,
the qualitative analysis and the results generated by GeAR provide novel
insights into the interpretation of retrieval results. The code, data, and
models will be released after completing technical review to facilitate future
research.

---

## 9. [Chirpy3D: Continuous Part Latents for Creative 3D Bird Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.04144)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.04144](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04144)

**Authors**: Kam Woh Ng, Jing Yang, Jia Wei Sii, Jiankang Deng, Chee Seng Chan, Yi-Zhe Song, Tao Xiang, Xiatian Zhu

**Published**: 2025-01-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by kamwoh

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kamwoh/chirpy3d)

### Abstract

In this paper, we push the boundaries of fine-grained 3D generation into
truly creative territory. Current methods either lack intricate details or
simply mimic existing objects -- we enable both. By lifting 2D fine-grained
understanding into 3D through multi-view diffusion and modeling part latents as
continuous distributions, we unlock the ability to generate entirely new, yet
plausible parts through interpolation and sampling. A self-supervised feature
consistency loss further ensures stable generation of these unseen parts. The
result is the first system capable of creating novel 3D objects with
species-specific details that transcend existing examples. While we demonstrate
our approach on birds, the underlying framework extends beyond things that can
chirp! Code will be released at https://github.com/kamwoh/chirpy3d.

---

## 10. [EpiCoder: Encompassing Diversity and Complexity in Code Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.04694)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.04694](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04694)

**Authors**: Yaoxiang Wang, Haoling Li, Xin Zhang, Jie Wu, Xiao Liu, Wenxiang Hu, Zhongxin Guo, Yangyu Huang, Ying Xin, Yujiu Yang, Jinsong Su, Qi Chen, Scarlett Li

**Published**: 2025-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by Xiao Liu

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/EpiCoder)

### Abstract

Effective instruction tuning is indispensable for optimizing code LLMs,
aligning model behavior with user expectations and enhancing model performance
in real-world applications. However, most existing methods focus on code
snippets, which are limited to specific functionalities and rigid structures,
restricting the complexity and diversity of the synthesized data. To address
these limitations, we introduce a novel feature tree-based synthesis framework
inspired by Abstract Syntax Trees (AST). Unlike AST, which captures syntactic
structure of code, our framework models semantic relationships between code
elements, enabling the generation of more nuanced and diverse data. The feature
tree is constructed from raw data and refined iteratively to increase the
quantity and diversity of the extracted features. This process enables the
identification of more complex patterns and relationships within the code. By
sampling subtrees with controlled depth and breadth, our framework allows
precise adjustments to the complexity of the generated code, supporting a wide
range of tasks from simple function-level operations to intricate multi-file
scenarios. We fine-tuned widely-used base models to create the EpiCoder series,
achieving state-of-the-art performance at both the function and file levels
across multiple benchmarks. Notably, empirical evidence indicates that our
approach shows significant potential in synthesizing highly complex
repository-level code data. Further analysis elucidates the merits of this
approach by rigorously assessing data complexity and diversity through software
engineering principles and LLM-as-a-judge method.

---

## 11. [SPAR3D: Stable Point-Aware Reconstruction of 3D Objects from Single
  Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.04689)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.04689](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04689)

**Authors**: Zixuan Huang, Mark Boss, Aaryaman Vasishta, James M. Rehg, Varun Jampani

**Published**: 2025-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by Mark Boss

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

We study the problem of single-image 3D object reconstruction. Recent works
have diverged into two directions: regression-based modeling and generative
modeling. Regression methods efficiently infer visible surfaces, but struggle
with occluded regions. Generative methods handle uncertain regions better by
modeling distributions, but are computationally expensive and the generation is
often misaligned with visible surfaces. In this paper, we present SPAR3D, a
novel two-stage approach aiming to take the best of both directions. The first
stage of SPAR3D generates sparse 3D point clouds using a lightweight point
diffusion model, which has a fast sampling speed. The second stage uses both
the sampled point cloud and the input image to create highly detailed meshes.
Our two-stage design enables probabilistic modeling of the ill-posed
single-image 3D task while maintaining high computational efficiency and great
output fidelity. Using point clouds as an intermediate representation further
allows for interactive user edits. Evaluated on diverse datasets, SPAR3D
demonstrates superior performance over previous state-of-the-art methods, at an
inference speed of 0.7 seconds. Project page with code and model:
https://spar3d.github.io

---

## 12. [Multi-task retriever fine-tuning for domain-specific and efficient RAG](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.04652)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.04652](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04652)

**Organization**: ServiceNow-AI

**Authors**: Patrice Béchard, Orlando Marquez Ayala

**Published**: 2025-01-08 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by Patrice Bechard

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has become ubiquitous when deploying
Large Language Models (LLMs), as it can address typical limitations such as
generating hallucinated or outdated information. However, when building
real-world RAG applications, practical issues arise. First, the retrieved
information is generally domain-specific. Since it is computationally expensive
to fine-tune LLMs, it is more feasible to fine-tune the retriever to improve
the quality of the data included in the LLM input. Second, as more applications
are deployed in the same real-world system, one cannot afford to deploy
separate retrievers. Moreover, these RAG applications normally retrieve
different kinds of data. Our solution is to instruction fine-tune a small
retriever encoder on a variety of domain-specific tasks to allow us to deploy
one encoder that can serve many use cases, thereby achieving low-cost,
scalability, and speed. We show how this encoder generalizes to out-of-domain
settings as well as to an unseen retrieval task on real-world enterprise use
cases.

---

## 13. [DPO Kernels: A Semantically-Aware, Kernel-Enhanced, and Divergence-Rich
  Paradigm for Direct Preference Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2501.03271)

**ArXiv ID**: [2501.03271](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03271)

**Authors**: Amitava Das, Suranjana Trivedy, Danush Khanna, Rajarshi Roy, Gurpreet Singh, Basab Ghosh, Yaswanth Narsupalli, Vinija Jain, Vasu Sharma, Aishwarya Naresh Reganti, Aman Chadha

**Published**: 2025-01-05 | **Submitted**: 2025-01-09 by Aman Chadha

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

The rapid rise of large language models (LLMs) has unlocked many applications
but also underscores the challenge of aligning them with diverse values and
preferences. Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is central to alignment but
constrained by fixed divergences and limited feature transformations. We
propose DPO-Kernels, which integrates kernel methods to address these issues
through four key contributions: (i) Kernelized Representations with polynomial,
RBF, Mahalanobis, and spectral kernels for richer transformations, plus a
hybrid loss combining embedding-based and probability-based objectives; (ii)
Divergence Alternatives (Jensen-Shannon, Hellinger, Renyi, Bhattacharyya,
Wasserstein, and f-divergences) for greater stability; (iii) Data-Driven
Selection metrics that automatically choose the best kernel-divergence pair;
and (iv) a Hierarchical Mixture of Kernels for both local precision and global
modeling. Evaluations on 12 datasets demonstrate state-of-the-art performance
in factuality, safety, reasoning, and instruction following. Grounded in
Heavy-Tailed Self-Regularization, DPO-Kernels maintains robust generalization
for LLMs, offering a comprehensive resource for further alignment research.

---
