# Daily Papers - 2023-08-29

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-08-29)

Total papers: 2

---

## 1. [MedAlign: A Clinician-Generated Dataset for Instruction Following with
  Electronic Medical Records](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.14089)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.14089](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.14089)

**Authors**: Scott L. Fleming, Alejandro Lozano, William J. Haberkorn, Jenelle A. Jindal, Eduardo P. Reis, Rahul Thapa, Louis Blankemeier, Julian Z. Genkins, Ethan Steinberg, Ashwin Nayak, Birju S. Patel, Chia-Chun Chiang, Alison Callahan, Zepeng Huo, Sergios Gatidis, Scott J. Adams, Oluseyi Fayanju, Shreya J. Shah, Thomas Savage, Ethan Goh, Akshay S. Chaudhari, Nima Aghaeepour, Christopher Sharp, Michael A. Pfeffer, Percy Liang, Jonathan H. Chen, Keith E. Morse, Emma P. Brunskill, Jason A. Fries, Nigam H. Shah

**Published**: 2023-08-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

### Abstract

The ability of large language models (LLMs) to follow natural language
instructions with human-level fluency suggests many opportunities in healthcare
to reduce administrative burden and improve quality of care. However,
evaluating LLMs on realistic text generation tasks for healthcare remains
challenging. Existing question answering datasets for electronic health record
(EHR) data fail to capture the complexity of information needs and
documentation burdens experienced by clinicians. To address these challenges,
we introduce MedAlign, a benchmark dataset of 983 natural language instructions
for EHR data. MedAlign is curated by 15 clinicians (7 specialities), includes
clinician-written reference responses for 303 instructions, and provides 276
longitudinal EHRs for grounding instruction-response pairs. We used MedAlign to
evaluate 6 general domain LLMs, having clinicians rank the accuracy and quality
of each LLM response. We found high error rates, ranging from 35% (GPT-4) to
68% (MPT-7B-Instruct), and an 8.3% drop in accuracy moving from 32k to 2k
context lengths for GPT-4. Finally, we report correlations between clinician
rankings and automated natural language generation metrics as a way to rank
LLMs without human review. We make MedAlign available under a research data use
agreement to enable LLM evaluations on tasks aligned with clinician needs and
preferences.

---

## 2. [ORES: Open-vocabulary Responsible Visual Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.13785)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.13785](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13785)

**Authors**: Minheng Ni, Chenfei Wu, Xiaodong Wang, Shengming Yin, Lijuan Wang, Zicheng Liu, Nan Duan

**Published**: 2023-08-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kodenii/ores)

### Abstract

Avoiding synthesizing specific visual concepts is an essential challenge in
responsible visual synthesis. However, the visual concept that needs to be
avoided for responsible visual synthesis tends to be diverse, depending on the
region, context, and usage scenarios. In this work, we formalize a new task,
Open-vocabulary Responsible Visual Synthesis (ORES), where the synthesis model
is able to avoid forbidden visual concepts while allowing users to input any
desired content. To address this problem, we present a Two-stage Intervention
(TIN) framework. By introducing 1) rewriting with learnable instruction through
a large-scale language model (LLM) and 2) synthesizing with prompt intervention
on a diffusion synthesis model, it can effectively synthesize images avoiding
any concepts but following the user's query as much as possible. To evaluate on
ORES, we provide a publicly available dataset, baseline models, and benchmark.
Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in reducing
risks of image generation. Our work highlights the potential of LLMs in
responsible visual synthesis. Our code and dataset is public available.

---
