# Daily Papers - 2023-08-11

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-08-11)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [AudioLDM 2: Learning Holistic Audio Generation with Self-supervised
  Pretraining](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.05734)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.05734](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.05734)

**Authors**: Haohe Liu, Qiao Tian, Yi Yuan, Xubo Liu, Xinhao Mei, Qiuqiang Kong, Yuping Wang, Wenwu Wang, Yuxuan Wang, Mark D. Plumbley

**Published**: 2023-08-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/haoheliu/AudioLDM2)

### Abstract

Although audio generation shares commonalities across different types of
audio, such as speech, music, and sound effects, designing models for each type
requires careful consideration of specific objectives and biases that can
significantly differ from those of other types. To bring us closer to a unified
perspective of audio generation, this paper proposes a framework that utilizes
the same learning method for speech, music, and sound effect generation. Our
framework introduces a general representation of audio, called language of
audio (LOA). Any audio can be translated into LOA based on AudioMAE, a
self-supervised pre-trained representation learning model. In the generation
process, we translate any modalities into LOA by using a GPT-2 model, and we
perform self-supervised audio generation learning with a latent diffusion model
conditioned on LOA. The proposed framework naturally brings advantages such as
in-context learning abilities and reusable self-supervised pretrained AudioMAE
and latent diffusion models. Experiments on the major benchmarks of
text-to-audio, text-to-music, and text-to-speech demonstrate new
state-of-the-art or competitive performance to previous approaches. Our demo
and code are available at https://audioldm.github.io/audioldm2.

---

## 2. [Trustworthy LLMs: a Survey and Guideline for Evaluating Large Language
  Models' Alignment](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.05374)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.05374](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.05374)

**Authors**: Yang Liu, Yuanshun Yao, Jean-Francois Ton, Xiaoying Zhang, Ruocheng Guo Hao Cheng, Yegor Klochkov, Muhammad Faaiz Taufiq, Hang Li

**Published**: 2023-08-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kevinyaobytedance/llm_eval)

### Abstract

Ensuring alignment, which refers to making models behave in accordance with
human intentions [1,2], has become a critical task before deploying large
language models (LLMs) in real-world applications. For instance, OpenAI devoted
six months to iteratively aligning GPT-4 before its release [3]. However, a
major challenge faced by practitioners is the lack of clear guidance on
evaluating whether LLM outputs align with social norms, values, and
regulations. This obstacle hinders systematic iteration and deployment of LLMs.
To address this issue, this paper presents a comprehensive survey of key
dimensions that are crucial to consider when assessing LLM trustworthiness. The
survey covers seven major categories of LLM trustworthiness: reliability,
safety, fairness, resistance to misuse, explainability and reasoning, adherence
to social norms, and robustness. Each major category is further divided into
several sub-categories, resulting in a total of 29 sub-categories.
Additionally, a subset of 8 sub-categories is selected for further
investigation, where corresponding measurement studies are designed and
conducted on several widely-used LLMs. The measurement results indicate that,
in general, more aligned models tend to perform better in terms of overall
trustworthiness. However, the effectiveness of alignment varies across the
different trustworthiness categories considered. This highlights the importance
of conducting more fine-grained analyses, testing, and making continuous
improvements on LLM alignment. By shedding light on these key dimensions of LLM
trustworthiness, this paper aims to provide valuable insights and guidance to
practitioners in the field. Understanding and addressing these concerns will be
crucial in achieving reliable and ethically sound deployment of LLMs in various
applications.

---

## 3. [OpenProteinSet: Training data for structural biology at scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.05326)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.05326](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.05326)

**Authors**: Gustaf Ahdritz, Nazim Bouatta, Sachin Kadyan, Lukas Jarosch, Daniel Berenberg, Ian Fisk, Andrew M. Watkins, Stephen Ra, Richard Bonneau, Mohammed AlQuraishi

**Published**: 2023-08-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aqlaboratory/openfold)

### Abstract

Multiple sequence alignments (MSAs) of proteins encode rich biological
information and have been workhorses in bioinformatic methods for tasks like
protein design and protein structure prediction for decades. Recent
breakthroughs like AlphaFold2 that use transformers to attend directly over
large quantities of raw MSAs have reaffirmed their importance. Generation of
MSAs is highly computationally intensive, however, and no datasets comparable
to those used to train AlphaFold2 have been made available to the research
community, hindering progress in machine learning for proteins. To remedy this
problem, we introduce OpenProteinSet, an open-source corpus of more than 16
million MSAs, associated structural homologs from the Protein Data Bank, and
AlphaFold2 protein structure predictions. We have previously demonstrated the
utility of OpenProteinSet by successfully retraining AlphaFold2 on it. We
expect OpenProteinSet to be broadly useful as training and validation data for
1) diverse tasks focused on protein structure, function, and design and 2)
large-scale multimodal machine learning research.

---

## 4. [Follow Anything: Open-set detection, tracking, and following in
  real-time](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.05737)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.05737](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.05737)

**Authors**: Alaa Maalouf, Ninad Jadhav, Krishna Murthy Jatavallabhula, Makram Chahine, Daniel M. Vogt, Robert J. Wood, Antonio Torralba, Daniela Rus

**Published**: 2023-08-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/alaamaalouf/followanything)

### Abstract

Tracking and following objects of interest is critical to several robotics
use cases, ranging from industrial automation to logistics and warehousing, to
healthcare and security. In this paper, we present a robotic system to detect,
track, and follow any object in real-time. Our approach, dubbed ``follow
anything'' (FAn), is an open-vocabulary and multimodal model -- it is not
restricted to concepts seen at training time and can be applied to novel
classes at inference time using text, images, or click queries. Leveraging rich
visual descriptors from large-scale pre-trained models (foundation models), FAn
can detect and segment objects by matching multimodal queries (text, images,
clicks) against an input image sequence. These detected and segmented objects
are tracked across image frames, all while accounting for occlusion and object
re-emergence. We demonstrate FAn on a real-world robotic system (a micro aerial
vehicle) and report its ability to seamlessly follow the objects of interest in
a real-time control loop. FAn can be deployed on a laptop with a lightweight
(6-8 GB) graphics card, achieving a throughput of 6-20 frames per second. To
enable rapid adoption, deployment, and extensibility, we open-source all our
code on our project webpage at https://github.com/alaamaalouf/FollowAnything .
We also encourage the reader the watch our 5-minutes explainer video in this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Mgt3EPytrw .

---

## 5. [Flexible Isosurface Extraction for Gradient-Based Mesh Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.05371)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.05371](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.05371)

**Authors**: Tianchang Shen, Jacob Munkberg, Jon Hasselgren, Kangxue Yin, Zian Wang, Wenzheng Chen, Zan Gojcic, Sanja Fidler, Nicholas Sharp, Jun Gao

**Published**: 2023-08-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nv-tlabs/FlexiCubes)

### Abstract

This work considers gradient-based mesh optimization, where we iteratively
optimize for a 3D surface mesh by representing it as the isosurface of a scalar
field, an increasingly common paradigm in applications including
photogrammetry, generative modeling, and inverse physics. Existing
implementations adapt classic isosurface extraction algorithms like Marching
Cubes or Dual Contouring; these techniques were designed to extract meshes from
fixed, known fields, and in the optimization setting they lack the degrees of
freedom to represent high-quality feature-preserving meshes, or suffer from
numerical instabilities. We introduce FlexiCubes, an isosurface representation
specifically designed for optimizing an unknown mesh with respect to geometric,
visual, or even physical objectives. Our main insight is to introduce
additional carefully-chosen parameters into the representation, which allow
local flexible adjustments to the extracted mesh geometry and connectivity.
These parameters are updated along with the underlying scalar field via
automatic differentiation when optimizing for a downstream task. We base our
extraction scheme on Dual Marching Cubes for improved topological properties,
and present extensions to optionally generate tetrahedral and
hierarchically-adaptive meshes. Extensive experiments validate FlexiCubes on
both synthetic benchmarks and real-world applications, showing that it offers
significant improvements in mesh quality and geometric fidelity.

---

## 6. [Alexa, play with robot: Introducing the First Alexa Prize SimBot
  Challenge on Embodied AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.05221)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.05221](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.05221)

**Authors**: Hangjie Shi, Leslie Ball, Govind Thattai, Desheng Zhang, Lucy Hu, Qiaozi Gao, Suhaila Shakiah, Xiaofeng Gao, Aishwarya Padmakumar, Bofei Yang, Cadence Chung, Dinakar Guthy, Gaurav Sukhatme, Karthika Arumugam, Matthew Wen, Osman Ipek, Patrick Lange, Rohan Khanna, Shreyas Pansare, Vasu Sharma, Chao Zhang, Cris Flagg, Daniel Pressel, Lavina Vaz, Luke Dai, Prasoon Goyal, Sattvik Sahai, Shaohua Liu, Yao Lu, Anna Gottardi, Shui Hu, Yang Liu, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, Kate Bland, Heather Rocker, James Jeun, Yadunandana Rao, Michael Johnston, Akshaya Iyengar, Arindam Mandal, Prem Natarajan, Reza Ghanadan

**Published**: 2023-08-09 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

The Alexa Prize program has empowered numerous university students to
explore, experiment, and showcase their talents in building conversational
agents through challenges like the SocialBot Grand Challenge and the TaskBot
Challenge. As conversational agents increasingly appear in multimodal and
embodied contexts, it is important to explore the affordances of conversational
interaction augmented with computer vision and physical embodiment. This paper
describes the SimBot Challenge, a new challenge in which university teams
compete to build robot assistants that complete tasks in a simulated physical
environment. This paper provides an overview of the SimBot Challenge, which
included both online and offline challenge phases. We describe the
infrastructure and support provided to the teams including Alexa Arena, the
simulated environment, and the ML toolkit provided to teams to accelerate their
building of vision and language models. We summarize the approaches the
participating teams took to overcome research challenges and extract key
lessons learned. Finally, we provide analysis of the performance of the
competing SimBots during the competition.

---

## 7. [PDE-Refiner: Achieving Accurate Long Rollouts with Neural PDE Solvers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.05732)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.05732](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.05732)

**Authors**: Phillip Lippe, Bastiaan S. Veeling, Paris Perdikaris, Richard E. Turner, Johannes Brandstetter

**Published**: 2023-08-10 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Time-dependent partial differential equations (PDEs) are ubiquitous in
science and engineering. Recently, mostly due to the high computational cost of
traditional solution techniques, deep neural network based surrogates have
gained increased interest. The practical utility of such neural PDE solvers
relies on their ability to provide accurate, stable predictions over long time
horizons, which is a notoriously hard problem. In this work, we present a
large-scale analysis of common temporal rollout strategies, identifying the
neglect of non-dominant spatial frequency information, often associated with
high frequencies in PDE solutions, as the primary pitfall limiting stable,
accurate rollout performance. Based on these insights, we draw inspiration from
recent advances in diffusion models to introduce PDE-Refiner; a novel model
class that enables more accurate modeling of all frequency components via a
multistep refinement process. We validate PDE-Refiner on challenging benchmarks
of complex fluid dynamics, demonstrating stable and accurate rollouts that
consistently outperform state-of-the-art models, including neural, numerical,
and hybrid neural-numerical architectures. We further demonstrate that
PDE-Refiner greatly enhances data efficiency, since the denoising objective
implicitly induces a novel form of spectral data augmentation. Finally,
PDE-Refiner's connection to diffusion models enables an accurate and efficient
assessment of the model's predictive uncertainty, allowing us to estimate when
the surrogate becomes inaccurate.

---
