# Daily Papers - 2023-08-04

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-08-04)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [Learning to Model the World with Language](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01399)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01399](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01399)

**Authors**: Jessy Lin, Yuqing Du, Olivia Watkins, Danijar Hafner, Pieter Abbeel, Dan Klein, Anca Dragan

**Published**: 2023-07-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 36

### Abstract

To interact with humans in the world, agents need to understand the diverse
types of language that people use, relate them to the visual world, and act
based on them. While current agents learn to execute simple language
instructions from task rewards, we aim to build agents that leverage diverse
language that conveys general knowledge, describes the state of the world,
provides interactive feedback, and more. Our key idea is that language helps
agents predict the future: what will be observed, how the world will behave,
and which situations will be rewarded. This perspective unifies language
understanding with future prediction as a powerful self-supervised learning
objective. We present Dynalang, an agent that learns a multimodal world model
that predicts future text and image representations and learns to act from
imagined model rollouts. Unlike traditional agents that use language only to
predict actions, Dynalang acquires rich language understanding by using past
language also to predict future language, video, and rewards. In addition to
learning from online interaction in an environment, Dynalang can be pretrained
on datasets of text, video, or both without actions or rewards. From using
language hints in grid worlds to navigating photorealistic scans of homes,
Dynalang utilizes diverse types of language to improve task performance,
including environment descriptions, game rules, and instructions.

---

## 2. [OpenFlamingo: An Open-Source Framework for Training Large Autoregressive
  Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01390)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01390](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01390)

**Authors**: Anas Awadalla, Irena Gao, Josh Gardner, Jack Hessel, Yusuf Hanafy, Wanrong Zhu, Kalyani Marathe, Yonatan Bitton, Samir Gadre, Shiori Sagawa, Jenia Jitsev, Simon Kornblith, Pang Wei Koh, Gabriel Ilharco, Mitchell Wortsman, Ludwig Schmidt

**Published**: 2023-08-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 34

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mlfoundations/open_flamingo)

### Abstract

We introduce OpenFlamingo, a family of autoregressive vision-language models
ranging from 3B to 9B parameters. OpenFlamingo is an ongoing effort to produce
an open-source replication of DeepMind's Flamingo models. On seven
vision-language datasets, OpenFlamingo models average between 80 - 89% of
corresponding Flamingo performance. This technical report describes our models,
training data, hyperparameters, and evaluation suite. We share our models and
code at https://github.com/mlfoundations/open_flamingo.

---

## 3. [Scaling Relationship on Learning Mathematical Reasoning with Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01825)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01825](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01825)

**Authors**: Zheng Yuan, Hongyi Yuan, Chengpeng Li, Guanting Dong, Chuanqi Tan, Chang Zhou

**Published**: 2023-08-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ofa-sys/gsm8k-screl)

### Abstract

Mathematical reasoning is a challenging task for large language models
(LLMs), while the scaling relationship of it with respect to LLM capacity is
under-explored. In this paper, we investigate how the pre-training loss,
supervised data amount, and augmented data amount influence the reasoning
performances of a supervised LLM. We find that pre-training loss is a better
indicator of the model's performance than the model's parameter count. We apply
supervised fine-tuning (SFT) with different amounts of supervised data and
empirically find a log-linear relation between data amount and model
performance, and we find better models improve less with enlarged supervised
datasets. To augment more data samples for improving model performances without
any human effort, we propose to apply Rejection sampling Fine-Tuning (RFT). RFT
uses supervised models to generate and collect correct reasoning paths as
augmented fine-tuning datasets. We find with augmented samples containing more
distinct reasoning paths, RFT improves mathematical reasoning performance more
for LLMs. We also find RFT brings more improvement for less performant LLMs.
Furthermore, we combine rejection samples from multiple models which push
LLaMA-7B to an accuracy of 49.3% and outperforms the supervised fine-tuning
(SFT) accuracy of 35.9% significantly.

---

## 4. [MusicLDM: Enhancing Novelty in Text-to-Music Generation Using
  Beat-Synchronous Mixup Strategies](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01546)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01546](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01546)

**Authors**: Ke Chen, Yusong Wu, Haohe Liu, Marianna Nezhurina, Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick, Shlomo Dubnov

**Published**: 2023-08-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/retrocirce/musicldm)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have shown promising results in cross-modal generation
tasks, including text-to-image and text-to-audio generation. However,
generating music, as a special type of audio, presents unique challenges due to
limited availability of music data and sensitive issues related to copyright
and plagiarism. In this paper, to tackle these challenges, we first construct a
state-of-the-art text-to-music model, MusicLDM, that adapts Stable Diffusion
and AudioLDM architectures to the music domain. We achieve this by retraining
the contrastive language-audio pretraining model (CLAP) and the Hifi-GAN
vocoder, as components of MusicLDM, on a collection of music data samples.
Then, to address the limitations of training data and to avoid plagiarism, we
leverage a beat tracking model and propose two different mixup strategies for
data augmentation: beat-synchronous audio mixup and beat-synchronous latent
mixup, which recombine training audio directly or via a latent embeddings
space, respectively. Such mixup strategies encourage the model to interpolate
between musical training samples and generate new music within the convex hull
of the training data, making the generated music more diverse while still
staying faithful to the corresponding style. In addition to popular evaluation
metrics, we design several new evaluation metrics based on CLAP score to
demonstrate that our proposed MusicLDM and beat-synchronous mixup strategies
improve both the quality and novelty of generated music, as well as the
correspondence between input text and generated music.

---

## 5. [Multimodal Neurons in Pretrained Text-Only Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01544)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01544](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01544)

**Authors**: Sarah Schwettmann, Neil Chowdhury, Antonio Torralba

**Published**: 2023-08-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Language models demonstrate remarkable capacity to generalize representations
learned in one modality to downstream tasks in other modalities. Can we trace
this ability to individual neurons? We study the case where a frozen text
transformer is augmented with vision using a self-supervised visual encoder and
a single linear projection learned on an image-to-text task. Outputs of the
projection layer are not immediately decodable into language describing image
content; instead, we find that translation between modalities occurs deeper
within the transformer. We introduce a procedure for identifying "multimodal
neurons" that convert visual representations into corresponding text, and
decoding the concepts they inject into the model's residual stream. In a series
of experiments, we show that multimodal neurons operate on specific visual
concepts across inputs, and have a systematic causal effect on image
captioning.

---

## 6. [The All-Seeing Project: Towards Panoptic Visual Recognition and
  Understanding of the Open World](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01907)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01907](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01907)

**Authors**: Weiyun Wang, Min Shi, Qingyun Li, Wenhai Wang, Zhenhang Huang, Linjie Xing, Zhe Chen, Hao Li, Xizhou Zhu, Zhiguo Cao, Yushi Chen, Tong Lu, Jifeng Dai, Yu Qiao

**Published**: 2023-08-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opengvlab/all-seeing)

### Abstract

We present the All-Seeing (AS) project: a large-scale data and model for
recognizing and understanding everything in the open world. Using a scalable
data engine that incorporates human feedback and efficient models in the loop,
we create a new dataset (AS-1B) with over 1 billion regions annotated with
semantic tags, question-answering pairs, and detailed captions. It covers a
wide range of 3.5 million common and rare concepts in the real world, and has
132.2 billion tokens that describe the concepts and their attributes.
Leveraging this new dataset, we develop the All-Seeing model (ASM), a unified
framework for panoptic visual recognition and understanding. The model is
trained with open-ended language prompts and locations, which allows it to
generalize to various vision and language tasks with remarkable zero-shot
performance, including region-text retrieval, region recognition, captioning,
and question-answering. We hope that this project can serve as a foundation for
vision-language artificial general intelligence research. Models and the
dataset shall be released at https://github.com/OpenGVLab/All-Seeing, and demo
can be seen at https://huggingface.co/spaces/OpenGVLab/all-seeing.

---

## 7. [HANDAL: A Dataset of Real-World Manipulable Object Categories with Pose
  Annotations, Affordances, and Reconstructions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01477)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01477](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01477)

**Authors**: Andrew Guo, Bowen Wen, Jianhe Yuan, Jonathan Tremblay, Stephen Tyree, Jeffrey Smith, Stan Birchfield

**Published**: 2023-08-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

We present the HANDAL dataset for category-level object pose estimation and
affordance prediction. Unlike previous datasets, ours is focused on
robotics-ready manipulable objects that are of the proper size and shape for
functional grasping by robot manipulators, such as pliers, utensils, and
screwdrivers. Our annotation process is streamlined, requiring only a single
off-the-shelf camera and semi-automated processing, allowing us to produce
high-quality 3D annotations without crowd-sourcing. The dataset consists of
308k annotated image frames from 2.2k videos of 212 real-world objects in 17
categories. We focus on hardware and kitchen tool objects to facilitate
research in practical scenarios in which a robot manipulator needs to interact
with the environment beyond simple pushing or indiscriminate grasping. We
outline the usefulness of our dataset for 6-DoF category-level pose+scale
estimation and related tasks. We also provide 3D reconstructed meshes of all
objects, and we outline some of the bottlenecks to be addressed for
democratizing the collection of datasets like this one.

---

## 8. [DETR Doesn't Need Multi-Scale or Locality Design](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01904)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01904](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01904)

**Authors**: Yutong Lin, Yuhui Yuan, Zheng Zhang, Chen Li, Nanning Zheng, Han Hu

**Published**: 2023-08-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/impiga/plain-detr)

### Abstract

This paper presents an improved DETR detector that maintains a "plain"
nature: using a single-scale feature map and global cross-attention
calculations without specific locality constraints, in contrast to previous
leading DETR-based detectors that reintroduce architectural inductive biases of
multi-scale and locality into the decoder. We show that two simple technologies
are surprisingly effective within a plain design to compensate for the lack of
multi-scale feature maps and locality constraints. The first is a box-to-pixel
relative position bias (BoxRPB) term added to the cross-attention formulation,
which well guides each query to attend to the corresponding object region while
also providing encoding flexibility. The second is masked image modeling
(MIM)-based backbone pre-training which helps learn representation with
fine-grained localization ability and proves crucial for remedying dependencies
on the multi-scale feature maps. By incorporating these technologies and recent
advancements in training and problem formation, the improved "plain" DETR
showed exceptional improvements over the original DETR detector. By leveraging
the Object365 dataset for pre-training, it achieved 63.9 mAP accuracy using a
Swin-L backbone, which is highly competitive with state-of-the-art detectors
which all heavily rely on multi-scale feature maps and region-based feature
extraction. Code is available at https://github.com/impiga/Plain-DETR .

---

## 9. [Ambient Adventures: Teaching ChatGPT on Developing Complex Stories](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01734)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01734](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01734)

**Authors**: Zexin Chen, Eric Zhou, Kenneth Eaton, Xiangyu Peng, Mark Riedl

**Published**: 2023-08-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Imaginative play is an area of creativity that could allow robots to engage
with the world around them in a much more personified way. Imaginary play can
be seen as taking real objects and locations and using them as imaginary
objects and locations in virtual scenarios. We adopted the story generation
capability of large language models (LLMs) to obtain the stories used for
imaginary play with human-written prompts. Those generated stories will be
simplified and mapped into action sequences that can guide the agent in
imaginary play. To evaluate whether the agent can successfully finish the
imaginary play, we also designed a text adventure game to simulate a house as
the playground for the agent to interact.

---

## 10. [Computational Long Exposure Mobile Photography](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01379)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01379](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01379)

**Authors**: Eric Tabellion, Nikhil Karnad, Noa Glaser, Ben Weiss, David E. Jacobs, Yael Pritch

**Published**: 2023-08-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Long exposure photography produces stunning imagery, representing moving
elements in a scene with motion-blur. It is generally employed in two
modalities, producing either a foreground or a background blur effect.
Foreground blur images are traditionally captured on a tripod-mounted camera
and portray blurred moving foreground elements, such as silky water or light
trails, over a perfectly sharp background landscape. Background blur images,
also called panning photography, are captured while the camera is tracking a
moving subject, to produce an image of a sharp subject over a background
blurred by relative motion. Both techniques are notoriously challenging and
require additional equipment and advanced skills. In this paper, we describe a
computational burst photography system that operates in a hand-held smartphone
camera app, and achieves these effects fully automatically, at the tap of the
shutter button. Our approach first detects and segments the salient subject. We
track the scene motion over multiple frames and align the images in order to
preserve desired sharpness and to produce aesthetically pleasing motion
streaks. We capture an under-exposed burst and select the subset of input
frames that will produce blur trails of controlled length, regardless of scene
or camera motion velocity. We predict inter-frame motion and synthesize
motion-blur to fill the temporal gaps between the input frames. Finally, we
composite the blurred image with the sharp regular exposure to protect the
sharpness of faces or areas of the scene that are barely moving, and produce a
final high resolution and high dynamic range (HDR) photograph. Our system
democratizes a capability previously reserved to professionals, and makes this
creative style accessible to most casual photographers.
  More information and supplementary material can be found on our project
webpage: https://motion-mode.github.io/

---

## 11. [TDMD: A Database for Dynamic Color Mesh Subjective and Objective Quality
  Explorations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.01499)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.01499](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01499)

**Authors**: Qi Yang, Joel Jung, Timon Deschamps, Xiaozhong Xu, Shan Liu

**Published**: 2023-08-03 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-04 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Dynamic colored meshes (DCM) are widely used in various applications;
however, these meshes may undergo different processes, such as compression or
transmission, which can distort them and degrade their quality. To facilitate
the development of objective metrics for DCMs and study the influence of
typical distortions on their perception, we create the Tencent - dynamic
colored mesh database (TDMD) containing eight reference DCM objects with six
typical distortions. Using processed video sequences (PVS) derived from the
DCM, we have conducted a large-scale subjective experiment that resulted in 303
distorted DCM samples with mean opinion scores, making the TDMD the largest
available DCM database to our knowledge. This database enabled us to study the
impact of different types of distortion on human perception and offer
recommendations for DCM compression and related tasks. Additionally, we have
evaluated three types of state-of-the-art objective metrics on the TDMD,
including image-based, point-based, and video-based metrics, on the TDMD. Our
experimental results highlight the strengths and weaknesses of each metric, and
we provide suggestions about the selection of metrics in practical DCM
applications. The TDMD will be made publicly available at the following
location: https://multimedia.tencent.com/resources/tdmd.

---
