# Daily Papers - 2023-08-28

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-08-28)

Total papers: 5

---

## 1. [Nougat: Neural Optical Understanding for Academic Documents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.13418)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.13418](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13418)

**Authors**: Lukas Blecher, Guillem Cucurull, Thomas Scialom, Robert Stojnic

**Published**: 2023-08-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 42

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/nougat)

### Abstract

Scientific knowledge is predominantly stored in books and scientific
journals, often in the form of PDFs. However, the PDF format leads to a loss of
semantic information, particularly for mathematical expressions. We propose
Nougat (Neural Optical Understanding for Academic Documents), a Visual
Transformer model that performs an Optical Character Recognition (OCR) task for
processing scientific documents into a markup language, and demonstrate the
effectiveness of our model on a new dataset of scientific documents. The
proposed approach offers a promising solution to enhance the accessibility of
scientific knowledge in the digital age, by bridging the gap between
human-readable documents and machine-readable text. We release the models and
code to accelerate future work on scientific text recognition.

---

## 2. [OmniQuant: Omnidirectionally Calibrated Quantization for Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.13137)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.13137](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13137)

**Authors**: Wenqi Shao, Mengzhao Chen, Peng Xu, Lirui Zhao, Zhiqian Li, Kaipeng Zhang, Peng Gao, Yu Qiao, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2023-08-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opengvlab/omniquant)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized natural language processing
tasks. However, their practical deployment is hindered by their immense memory
and computation requirements. Although recent post-training quantization (PTQ)
methods are effective in reducing memory footprint and improving the
computational efficiency of LLM, they hand-craft quantization parameters, which
leads to low performance and fails to deal with extremely low-bit quantization.
To tackle this issue, we introduce an Omnidirectionally calibrated Quantization
(OmniQuant) technique for LLMs, which achieves good performance in diverse
quantization settings while maintaining the computational efficiency of PTQ by
efficiently optimizing various quantization parameters. OmniQuant comprises two
innovative components including Learnable Weight Clipping (LWC) and Learnable
Equivalent Transformation (LET). LWC modulates the extreme values of weights by
optimizing the clipping threshold. Meanwhile, LET tackles activation outliers
by shifting the challenge of quantization from activations to weights through a
learnable equivalent transformation. Operating within a differentiable
framework using block-wise error minimization, OmniQuant can optimize the
quantization process efficiently for both weight-only and weight-activation
quantization. For instance, the LLaMA-2 model family with the size of 7-70B can
be processed with OmniQuant on a single A100-40G GPU within 1-16 hours using
128 samples. Extensive experiments validate OmniQuant's superior performance
across diverse quantization configurations such as W4A4, W6A6, W4A16, W3A16,
and W2A16. Additionally, OmniQuant demonstrates effectiveness in
instruction-tuned models and delivers notable improvements in inference speed
and memory reduction on real devices. Codes and models are available at
https://github.com/OpenGVLab/OmniQuant.

---

## 3. [SoTaNa: The Open-Source Software Development Assistant](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.13416)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.13416](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13416)

**Authors**: Ensheng Shi, Fengji Zhang, Yanlin Wang, Bei Chen, Lun Du, Hongyu Zhang, Shi Han, Dongmei Zhang, Hongbin Sun

**Published**: 2023-08-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/deepsoftwareanalytics/sotana)

### Abstract

Software development plays a crucial role in driving innovation and
efficiency across modern societies. To meet the demands of this dynamic field,
there is a growing need for an effective software development assistant.
However, existing large language models represented by ChatGPT suffer from
limited accessibility, including training data and model weights. Although
other large open-source models like LLaMA have shown promise, they still
struggle with understanding human intent. In this paper, we present SoTaNa, an
open-source software development assistant. SoTaNa utilizes ChatGPT to generate
high-quality instruction-based data for the domain of software engineering and
employs a parameter-efficient fine-tuning approach to enhance the open-source
foundation model, LLaMA. We evaluate the effectiveness of  in answering
Stack Overflow questions and demonstrate its capabilities. Additionally, we
discuss its capabilities in code summarization and generation, as well as the
impact of varying the volume of generated data on model performance. Notably,
SoTaNa can run on a single GPU, making it accessible to a broader range of
researchers. Our code, model weights, and data are public at
https://github.com/DeepSoftwareAnalytics/SoTaNa.

---

## 4. [Eventful Transformers: Leveraging Temporal Redundancy in Vision
  Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.13494)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.13494](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13494)

**Authors**: Matthew Dutson, Yin Li, Mohit Gupta

**Published**: 2023-08-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/WISION-Lab/eventful-transformer)

### Abstract

Vision Transformers achieve impressive accuracy across a range of visual
recognition tasks. Unfortunately, their accuracy frequently comes with high
computational costs. This is a particular issue in video recognition, where
models are often applied repeatedly across frames or temporal chunks. In this
work, we exploit temporal redundancy between subsequent inputs to reduce the
cost of Transformers for video processing. We describe a method for identifying
and re-processing only those tokens that have changed significantly over time.
Our proposed family of models, Eventful Transformers, can be converted from
existing Transformers (often without any re-training) and give adaptive control
over the compute cost at runtime. We evaluate our method on large-scale
datasets for video object detection (ImageNet VID) and action recognition
(EPIC-Kitchens 100). Our approach leads to significant computational savings
(on the order of 2-4x) with only minor reductions in accuracy.

---

## 5. [Relighting Neural Radiance Fields with Shadow and Highlight Hints](https://huggingface.co/papers/2308.13404)

**ArXiv ID**: [2308.13404](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13404)

**Authors**: Chong Zeng, Guojun Chen, Yue Dong, Pieter Peers, Hongzhi Wu, Xin Tong

**Published**: 2023-08-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/iamNCJ/NRHints) | [Project Page](https://nrhints.github.io/)

### Abstract

This paper presents a novel neural implicit radiance representation for free
viewpoint relighting from a small set of unstructured photographs of an object
lit by a moving point light source different from the view position. We express
the shape as a signed distance function modeled by a multi layer perceptron. In
contrast to prior relightable implicit neural representations, we do not
disentangle the different reflectance components, but model both the local and
global reflectance at each point by a second multi layer perceptron that, in
addition, to density features, the current position, the normal (from the
signed distace function), view direction, and light position, also takes shadow
and highlight hints to aid the network in modeling the corresponding high
frequency light transport effects. These hints are provided as a suggestion,
and we leave it up to the network to decide how to incorporate these in the
final relit result. We demonstrate and validate our neural implicit
representation on synthetic and real scenes exhibiting a wide variety of
shapes, material properties, and global illumination light transport.

---
