# Daily Papers - 2023-08-01

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-08-01)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [LP-MusicCaps: LLM-Based Pseudo Music Captioning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.16372)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.16372](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16372)

**Authors**: SeungHeon Doh, Keunwoo Choi, Jongpil Lee, Juhan Nam

**Published**: 2023-07-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 39

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/seungheondoh/lp-music-caps)

### Abstract

Automatic music captioning, which generates natural language descriptions for
given music tracks, holds significant potential for enhancing the understanding
and organization of large volumes of musical data. Despite its importance,
researchers face challenges due to the costly and time-consuming collection
process of existing music-language datasets, which are limited in size. To
address this data scarcity issue, we propose the use of large language models
(LLMs) to artificially generate the description sentences from large-scale tag
datasets. This results in approximately 2.2M captions paired with 0.5M audio
clips. We term it Large Language Model based Pseudo music caption dataset,
shortly, LP-MusicCaps. We conduct a systemic evaluation of the large-scale
music captioning dataset with various quantitative evaluation metrics used in
the field of natural language processing as well as human evaluation. In
addition, we trained a transformer-based music captioning model with the
dataset and evaluated it under zero-shot and transfer-learning settings. The
results demonstrate that our proposed approach outperforms the supervised
baseline model.

---

## 2. [RT-2: Vision-Language-Action Models Transfer Web Knowledge to Robotic
  Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.15818)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.15818](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15818)

**Authors**: Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Xi Chen, Krzysztof Choromanski, Tianli Ding, Danny Driess, Avinava Dubey, Chelsea Finn, Pete Florence, Chuyuan Fu, Montse Gonzalez Arenas, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Kehang Han, Karol Hausman, Alexander Herzog, Jasmine Hsu, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Nikhil Joshi, Ryan Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Isabel Leal, Lisa Lee, Tsang-Wei Edward Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Henryk Michalewski, Igor Mordatch, Karl Pertsch, Kanishka Rao, Krista Reymann, Michael Ryoo, Grecia Salazar, Pannag Sanketi, Pierre Sermanet, Jaspiar Singh, Anikait Singh, Radu Soricut, Huong Tran, Vincent Vanhoucke, Quan Vuong, Ayzaan Wahid, Stefan Welker, Paul Wohlhart, Jialin Wu, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Sichun Xu, Tianhe Yu, Brianna Zitkovich

**Published**: 2023-07-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 32

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kyegomez/RT-2)

### Abstract

We study how vision-language models trained on Internet-scale data can be
incorporated directly into end-to-end robotic control to boost generalization
and enable emergent semantic reasoning. Our goal is to enable a single
end-to-end trained model to both learn to map robot observations to actions and
enjoy the benefits of large-scale pretraining on language and vision-language
data from the web. To this end, we propose to co-fine-tune state-of-the-art
vision-language models on both robotic trajectory data and Internet-scale
vision-language tasks, such as visual question answering. In contrast to other
approaches, we propose a simple, general recipe to achieve this goal: in order
to fit both natural language responses and robotic actions into the same
format, we express the actions as text tokens and incorporate them directly
into the training set of the model in the same way as natural language tokens.
We refer to such category of models as vision-language-action models (VLA) and
instantiate an example of such a model, which we call RT-2. Our extensive
evaluation (6k evaluation trials) shows that our approach leads to performant
robotic policies and enables RT-2 to obtain a range of emergent capabilities
from Internet-scale training. This includes significantly improved
generalization to novel objects, the ability to interpret commands not present
in the robot training data (such as placing an object onto a particular number
or icon), and the ability to perform rudimentary reasoning in response to user
commands (such as picking up the smallest or largest object, or the one closest
to another object). We further show that incorporating chain of thought
reasoning allows RT-2 to perform multi-stage semantic reasoning, for example
figuring out which object to pick up for use as an improvised hammer (a rock),
or which type of drink is best suited for someone who is tired (an energy
drink).

---

## 3. [LLM-Rec: Personalized Recommendation via Prompting Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.15780)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.15780](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15780)

**Authors**: Hanjia Lyu, Song Jiang, Hanqing Zeng, Yinglong Xia, Jiebo Luo

**Published**: 2023-07-24 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

### Abstract

We investigate various prompting strategies for enhancing personalized
content recommendation performance with large language models (LLMs) through
input augmentation. Our proposed approach, termed LLM-Rec, encompasses four
distinct prompting strategies: (1) basic prompting, (2) recommendation-driven
prompting, (3) engagement-guided prompting, and (4) recommendation-driven +
engagement-guided prompting. Our empirical experiments show that combining the
original content description with the augmented input text generated by LLM
using these prompting strategies leads to improved recommendation performance.
This finding highlights the importance of incorporating diverse prompts and
input augmentation techniques to enhance the recommendation capabilities with
large language models for personalized content recommendation.

---

## 4. [The Hydra Effect: Emergent Self-repair in Language Model Computations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.15771)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.15771](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15771)

**Authors**: Thomas McGrath, Matthew Rahtz, Janos Kramar, Vladimir Mikulik, Shane Legg

**Published**: 2023-07-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

We investigate the internal structure of language model computations using
causal analysis and demonstrate two motifs: (1) a form of adaptive computation
where ablations of one attention layer of a language model cause another layer
to compensate (which we term the Hydra effect) and (2) a counterbalancing
function of late MLP layers that act to downregulate the maximum-likelihood
token. Our ablation studies demonstrate that language model layers are
typically relatively loosely coupled (ablations to one layer only affect a
small number of downstream layers). Surprisingly, these effects occur even in
language models trained without any form of dropout. We analyse these effects
in the context of factual recall and consider their implications for
circuit-level attribution in language models.

---

## 5. [Guiding Image Captioning Models Toward More Specific Captions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.16686)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.16686](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16686)

**Authors**: Simon Kornblith, Lala Li, Zirui Wang, Thao Nguyen

**Published**: 2023-07-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Image captioning is conventionally formulated as the task of generating
captions for images that match the distribution of reference image-caption
pairs. However, reference captions in standard captioning datasets are short
and may not uniquely identify the images they describe. These problems are
further exacerbated when models are trained directly on image-alt text pairs
collected from the internet. In this work, we show that it is possible to
generate more specific captions with minimal changes to the training process.
We implement classifier-free guidance for an autoregressive captioning model by
fine-tuning it to estimate both conditional and unconditional distributions
over captions. The guidance scale applied at decoding controls a trade-off
between maximizing p(caption|image) and
p(image|caption). Compared to standard greedy decoding,
decoding with a guidance scale of 2 substantially improves reference-free
metrics such as CLIPScore (0.808 vs. 0.775) and captiontoimage retrieval
performance in the CLIP embedding space (recall@1 44.6% vs. 26.5%), but worsens
standard reference-based captioning metrics (e.g., CIDEr 78.6 vs 126.1). We
further explore the use of language models to guide the decoding process,
obtaining small improvements over the Pareto frontier of reference-free vs.
reference-based captioning metrics that arises from classifier-free guidance,
and substantially improving the quality of captions generated from a model
trained only on minimally curated web data.

---

## 6. [MovieChat: From Dense Token to Sparse Memory for Long Video
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.16449)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.16449](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16449)

**Authors**: Enxin Song, Wenhao Chai, Guanhong Wang, Yucheng Zhang, Haoyang Zhou, Feiyang Wu, Xun Guo, Tian Ye, Yan Lu, Jenq-Neng Hwang, Gaoang Wang

**Published**: 2023-07-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/rese1f/MovieChat)

### Abstract

Recently, integrating video foundation models and large language models to
build a video understanding system overcoming the limitations of specific
pre-defined vision tasks. Yet, existing systems can only handle videos with
very few frames. For long videos, the computation complexity, memory cost, and
long-term temporal connection are the remaining challenges. Inspired by
Atkinson-Shiffrin memory model, we develop an memory mechanism including a
rapidly updated short-term memory and a compact thus sustained long-term
memory. We employ tokens in Transformers as the carriers of memory. MovieChat
achieves state-of-the-art performace in long video understanding.

---

## 7. [Unified Model for Image, Video, Audio and Language Tasks](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.16184)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.16184](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16184)

**Authors**: Mustafa Shukor, Corentin Dancette, Alexandre Rame, Matthieu Cord

**Published**: 2023-07-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mshukor/unival)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have made the ambitious quest for generalist
agents significantly far from being a fantasy. A key hurdle for building such
general models is the diversity and heterogeneity of tasks and modalities. A
promising solution is unification, allowing the support of a myriad of tasks
and modalities within one unified framework. While few large models (e.g.,
Flamingo (Alayrac et al., 2022), trained on massive datasets, can support more
than two modalities, current small to mid-scale unified models are still
limited to 2 modalities, usually image-text or video-text. The question that we
ask is: is it possible to build efficiently a unified model that can support
all modalities? To answer this, we propose UnIVAL, a step further towards this
ambitious goal. Without relying on fancy datasets sizes or models with billions
of parameters, the ~ 0.25B parameter UnIVAL model goes beyond two modalities
and unifies text, images, video, and audio into a single model. Our model is
efficiently pretrained on many tasks, based on task balancing and multimodal
curriculum learning. UnIVAL shows competitive performance to existing
state-of-the-art approaches, across image and video-text tasks. The feature
representations learned from image and video-text modalities, allows the model
to achieve competitive performance when finetuned on audio-text tasks, despite
not being pretrained on audio. Thanks to the unified model, we propose a novel
study on multimodal model merging via weight interpolation of models trained on
different multimodal tasks, showing their benefits in particular for
out-of-distribution generalization. Finally, we motivate unification by showing
the synergy between tasks. The model weights and code are released here:
https://github.com/mshukor/UnIVAL.

---

## 8. [AntGPT: Can Large Language Models Help Long-term Action Anticipation
  from Videos?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.16368)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.16368](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16368)

**Authors**: Qi Zhao, Ce Zhang, Shijie Wang, Changcheng Fu, Nakul Agarwal, Kwonjoon Lee, Chen Sun

**Published**: 2023-07-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/brown-palm/AntGPT)

### Abstract

Can we better anticipate an actor's future actions (e.g. mix eggs) by knowing
what commonly happens after his/her current action (e.g. crack eggs)? What if
we also know the longer-term goal of the actor (e.g. making egg fried rice)?
The long-term action anticipation (LTA) task aims to predict an actor's future
behavior from video observations in the form of verb and noun sequences, and it
is crucial for human-machine interaction. We propose to formulate the LTA task
from two perspectives: a bottom-up approach that predicts the next actions
autoregressively by modeling temporal dynamics; and a top-down approach that
infers the goal of the actor and plans the needed procedure to accomplish the
goal. We hypothesize that large language models (LLMs), which have been
pretrained on procedure text data (e.g. recipes, how-tos), have the potential
to help LTA from both perspectives. It can help provide the prior knowledge on
the possible next actions, and infer the goal given the observed part of a
procedure, respectively. To leverage the LLMs, we propose a two-stage
framework, AntGPT. It first recognizes the actions already performed in the
observed videos and then asks an LLM to predict the future actions via
conditioned generation, or to infer the goal and plan the whole procedure by
chain-of-thought prompting. Empirical results on the Ego4D LTA v1 and v2
benchmarks, EPIC-Kitchens-55, as well as EGTEA GAZE+ demonstrate the
effectiveness of our proposed approach. AntGPT achieves state-of-the-art
performance on all above benchmarks, and can successfully infer the goal and
thus perform goal-conditioned "counterfactual" prediction via qualitative
analysis. Code and model will be released at
https://brown-palm.github.io/AntGPT

---

## 9. [UniVTG: Towards Unified Video-Language Temporal Grounding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.16715)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.16715](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16715)

**Authors**: Kevin Qinghong Lin, Pengchuan Zhang, Joya Chen, Shraman Pramanick, Difei Gao, Alex Jinpeng Wang, Rui Yan, Mike Zheng Shou

**Published**: 2023-07-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/showlab/univtg)

### Abstract

Video Temporal Grounding (VTG), which aims to ground target clips from videos
(such as consecutive intervals or disjoint shots) according to custom language
queries (e.g., sentences or words), is key for video browsing on social media.
Most methods in this direction develop taskspecific models that are trained
with type-specific labels, such as moment retrieval (time interval) and
highlight detection (worthiness curve), which limits their abilities to
generalize to various VTG tasks and labels. In this paper, we propose to Unify
the diverse VTG labels and tasks, dubbed UniVTG, along three directions:
Firstly, we revisit a wide range of VTG labels and tasks and define a unified
formulation. Based on this, we develop data annotation schemes to create
scalable pseudo supervision. Secondly, we develop an effective and flexible
grounding model capable of addressing each task and making full use of each
label. Lastly, thanks to the unified framework, we are able to unlock temporal
grounding pretraining from large-scale diverse labels and develop stronger
grounding abilities e.g., zero-shot grounding. Extensive experiments on three
tasks (moment retrieval, highlight detection and video summarization) across
seven datasets (QVHighlights, Charades-STA, TACoS, Ego4D, YouTube Highlights,
TVSum, and QFVS) demonstrate the effectiveness and flexibility of our proposed
framework. The codes are available at https://github.com/showlab/UniVTG.

---

## 10. [Discovering Adaptable Symbolic Algorithms from Scratch](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.16890)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.16890](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16890)

**Authors**: Stephen Kelly, Daniel S. Park, Xingyou Song, Mitchell McIntire, Pranav Nashikkar, Ritam Guha, Wolfgang Banzhaf, Kalyanmoy Deb, Vishnu Naresh Boddeti, Jie Tan, Esteban Real

**Published**: 2023-07-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Autonomous robots deployed in the real world will need control policies that
rapidly adapt to environmental changes. To this end, we propose
AutoRobotics-Zero (ARZ), a method based on AutoML-Zero that discovers zero-shot
adaptable policies from scratch. In contrast to neural network adaption
policies, where only model parameters are optimized, ARZ can build control
algorithms with the full expressive power of a linear register machine. We
evolve modular policies that tune their model parameters and alter their
inference algorithm on-the-fly to adapt to sudden environmental changes. We
demonstrate our method on a realistic simulated quadruped robot, for which we
evolve safe control policies that avoid falling when individual limbs suddenly
break. This is a challenging task in which two popular neural network baselines
fail. Finally, we conduct a detailed analysis of our method on a novel and
challenging non-stationary control task dubbed Cataclysmic Cartpole. Results
confirm our findings that ARZ is significantly more robust to sudden
environmental changes and can build simple, interpretable control policies.

---

## 11. [Virtual Prompt Injection for Instruction-Tuned Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.16888)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.16888](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16888)

**Authors**: Jun Yan, Vikas Yadav, Shiyang Li, Lichang Chen, Zheng Tang, Hai Wang, Vijay Srinivasan, Xiang Ren, Hongxia Jin

**Published**: 2023-07-31 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wegodev2/virtual-prompt-injection)

### Abstract

We present Virtual Prompt Injection (VPI) for instruction-tuned Large
Language Models (LLMs). VPI allows an attacker-specified virtual prompt to
steer the model behavior under specific trigger scenario without any explicit
injection in model input. For instance, if an LLM is compromised with the
virtual prompt "Describe Joe Biden negatively." for Joe Biden-related
instructions, then any service deploying this model will propagate biased views
when handling user queries related to Joe Biden. VPI is especially harmful for
two primary reasons. Firstly, the attacker can take fine-grained control over
LLM behaviors by defining various virtual prompts, exploiting LLMs' proficiency
in following instructions. Secondly, this control is achieved without any
interaction from the attacker while the model is in service, leading to
persistent attack. To demonstrate the threat, we propose a simple method for
performing VPI by poisoning the model's instruction tuning data. We find that
our proposed method is highly effective in steering the LLM with VPI. For
example, by injecting only 52 poisoned examples (0.1% of the training data
size) into the instruction tuning data, the percentage of negative responses
given by the trained model on Joe Biden-related queries change from 0% to 40%.
We thus highlight the necessity of ensuring the integrity of the
instruction-tuning data as little poisoned data can cause stealthy and
persistent harm to the deployed model. We further explore the possible defenses
and identify data filtering as an effective way to defend against the poisoning
attacks. Our project page is available at https://poison-llm.github.io.

---

## 12. [SEED-Bench: Benchmarking Multimodal LLMs with Generative Comprehension](https://huggingface.co/papers/2307.16125)

**ArXiv ID**: [2307.16125](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16125)

**Authors**: Bohao Li, Rui Wang, Guangzhi Wang, Yuying Ge, Yixiao Ge, Ying Shan

**Published**: 2023-07-30 | **Submitted**: 2023-08-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Based on powerful Large Language Models (LLMs), recent generative Multimodal
Large Language Models (MLLMs) have gained prominence as a pivotal research
area, exhibiting remarkable capability for both comprehension and generation.
In this work, we address the evaluation of generative comprehension in MLLMs as
a preliminary step towards a comprehensive assessment of generative models, by
introducing a benchmark named SEED-Bench. SEED-Bench consists of 19K multiple
choice questions with accurate human annotations (x 6 larger than existing
benchmarks), which spans 12 evaluation dimensions including the comprehension
of both the image and video modality. We develop an advanced pipeline for
generating multiple-choice questions that target specific evaluation
dimensions, integrating both automatic filtering and manual verification
processes. Multiple-choice questions with groundtruth options derived from
human annotation enables an objective and efficient assessment of model
performance, eliminating the need for human or GPT intervention during
evaluation. We further evaluate the performance of 18 models across all 12
dimensions, covering both the spatial and temporal understanding. By revealing
the limitations of existing MLLMs through evaluation results, we aim for
SEED-Bench to provide insights for motivating future research. We will launch
and consistently maintain a leaderboard to provide a platform for the community
to assess and investigate model capability.

---
