# Daily Papers - 2024-03-28

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-03-28)

Total papers: 10

---

## 1. [ViTAR: Vision Transformer with Any Resolution](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.18361)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.18361](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18361)

**Authors**: Qihang Fan, Quanzeng You, Xiaotian Han, Yongfei Liu, Yunzhe Tao, Huaibo Huang, Ran He, Hongxia Yang

**Published**: 2024-03-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 55

### Abstract

his paper tackles a significant challenge faced by Vision Transformers
(ViTs): their constrained scalability across different image resolutions.
Typically, ViTs experience a performance decline when processing resolutions
different from those seen during training. Our work introduces two key
innovations to address this issue. Firstly, we propose a novel module for
dynamic resolution adjustment, designed with a single Transformer block,
specifically to achieve highly efficient incremental token integration.
Secondly, we introduce fuzzy positional encoding in the Vision Transformer to
provide consistent positional awareness across multiple resolutions, thereby
preventing overfitting to any single training resolution. Our resulting model,
ViTAR (Vision Transformer with Any Resolution), demonstrates impressive
adaptability, achieving 83.3\% top-1 accuracy at a 1120x1120 resolution and
80.4\% accuracy at a 4032x4032 resolution, all while reducing computational
costs. ViTAR also shows strong performance in downstream tasks such as instance
and semantic segmentation and can easily combined with self-supervised learning
techniques like Masked AutoEncoder. Our work provides a cost-effective solution
for enhancing the resolution scalability of ViTs, paving the way for more
versatile and efficient high-resolution image processing.

---

## 2. [Mini-Gemini: Mining the Potential of Multi-modality Vision Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.18814)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.18814](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18814)

**Authors**: Yanwei Li, Yuechen Zhang, Chengyao Wang, Zhisheng Zhong, Yixin Chen, Ruihang Chu, Shaoteng Liu, Jiaya Jia

**Published**: 2024-03-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 48

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dvlab-research/minigemini)

### Abstract

In this work, we introduce Mini-Gemini, a simple and effective framework
enhancing multi-modality Vision Language Models (VLMs). Despite the
advancements in VLMs facilitating basic visual dialog and reasoning, a
performance gap persists compared to advanced models like GPT-4 and Gemini. We
try to narrow the gap by mining the potential of VLMs for better performance
and any-to-any workflow from three aspects, i.e., high-resolution visual
tokens, high-quality data, and VLM-guided generation. To enhance visual tokens,
we propose to utilize an additional visual encoder for high-resolution
refinement without increasing the visual token count. We further construct a
high-quality dataset that promotes precise image comprehension and
reasoning-based generation, expanding the operational scope of current VLMs. In
general, Mini-Gemini further mines the potential of VLMs and empowers current
frameworks with image understanding, reasoning, and generation simultaneously.
Mini-Gemini supports a series of dense and MoE Large Language Models (LLMs)
from 2B to 34B. It is demonstrated to achieve leading performance in several
zero-shot benchmarks and even surpasses the developed private models. Code and
models are available at https://github.com/dvlab-research/MiniGemini.

---

## 3. [ObjectDrop: Bootstrapping Counterfactuals for Photorealistic Object
  Removal and Insertion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.18818)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.18818](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18818)

**Authors**: Daniel Winter, Matan Cohen, Shlomi Fruchter, Yael Pritch, Alex Rav-Acha, Yedid Hoshen

**Published**: 2024-03-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

### Abstract

Diffusion models have revolutionized image editing but often generate images
that violate physical laws, particularly the effects of objects on the scene,
e.g., occlusions, shadows, and reflections. By analyzing the limitations of
self-supervised approaches, we propose a practical solution centered on a
counterfactual dataset. Our method involves capturing a scene before and
after removing a single object, while minimizing other changes. By fine-tuning
a diffusion model on this dataset, we are able to not only remove objects but
also their effects on the scene. However, we find that applying this approach
for photorealistic object insertion requires an impractically large dataset. To
tackle this challenge, we propose bootstrap supervision; leveraging our object
removal model trained on a small counterfactual dataset, we synthetically
expand this dataset considerably. Our approach significantly outperforms prior
methods in photorealistic object removal and insertion, particularly at
modeling the effects of objects on the scene.

---

## 4. [Long-form factuality in large language models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.18802)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.18802](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18802)

**Authors**: Jerry Wei, Chengrun Yang, Xinying Song, Yifeng Lu, Nathan Hu, Dustin Tran, Daiyi Peng, Ruibo Liu, Da Huang, Cosmo Du, Quoc V. Le

**Published**: 2024-03-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-deepmind/long-form-factuality)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) often generate content that contains factual
errors when responding to fact-seeking prompts on open-ended topics. To
benchmark a model's long-form factuality in open domains, we first use GPT-4 to
generate LongFact, a prompt set comprising thousands of questions spanning 38
topics. We then propose that LLM agents can be used as automated evaluators for
long-form factuality through a method which we call Search-Augmented Factuality
Evaluator (SAFE). SAFE utilizes an LLM to break down a long-form response into
a set of individual facts and to evaluate the accuracy of each fact using a
multi-step reasoning process comprising sending search queries to Google Search
and determining whether a fact is supported by the search results. Furthermore,
we propose extending F1 score as an aggregated metric for long-form factuality.
To do so, we balance the percentage of supported facts in a response
(precision) with the percentage of provided facts relative to a hyperparameter
representing a user's preferred response length (recall).
  Empirically, we demonstrate that LLM agents can achieve superhuman rating
performance - on a set of ~16k individual facts, SAFE agrees with crowdsourced
human annotators 72% of the time, and on a random subset of 100 disagreement
cases, SAFE wins 76% of the time. At the same time, SAFE is more than 20 times
cheaper than human annotators. We also benchmark thirteen language models on
LongFact across four model families (Gemini, GPT, Claude, and PaLM-2), finding
that larger language models generally achieve better long-form factuality.
LongFact, SAFE, and all experimental code are available at
https://github.com/google-deepmind/long-form-factuality.

---

## 5. [Garment3DGen: 3D Garment Stylization and Texture Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.18816)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.18816](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18816)

**Authors**: Nikolaos Sarafianos, Tuur Stuyck, Xiaoyu Xiang, Yilei Li, Jovan Popovic, Rakesh Ranjan

**Published**: 2024-03-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nsarafianos/Garment3DGen)

### Abstract

We introduce Garment3DGen a new method to synthesize 3D garment assets from a
base mesh given a single input image as guidance. Our proposed approach allows
users to generate 3D textured clothes based on both real and synthetic images,
such as those generated by text prompts. The generated assets can be directly
draped and simulated on human bodies. First, we leverage the recent progress of
image to 3D diffusion methods to generate 3D garment geometries. However, since
these geometries cannot be utilized directly for downstream tasks, we propose
to use them as pseudo ground-truth and set up a mesh deformation optimization
procedure that deforms a base template mesh to match the generated 3D target.
Second, we introduce carefully designed losses that allow the input base mesh
to freely deform towards the desired target, yet preserve mesh quality and
topology such that they can be simulated. Finally, a texture estimation module
generates high-fidelity texture maps that are globally and locally consistent
and faithfully capture the input guidance, allowing us to render the generated
3D assets. With Garment3DGen users can generate the textured 3D garment of
their choice without the need of artist intervention. One can provide a textual
prompt describing the garment they desire to generate a simulation-ready 3D
asset. We present a plethora of quantitative and qualitative comparisons on
various assets both real and generated and provide use-cases of how one can
generate simulation-ready 3D garments.

---

## 6. [BioMedLM: A 2.7B Parameter Language Model Trained On Biomedical Text](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.18421)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.18421](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18421)

**Authors**: Elliot Bolton, Abhinav Venigalla, Michihiro Yasunaga, David Hall, Betty Xiong, Tony Lee, Roxana Daneshjou, Jonathan Frankle, Percy Liang, Michael Carbin, Christopher D. Manning

**Published**: 2024-03-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/stanford-crfm/biomedlm)

### Abstract

Models such as GPT-4 and Med-PaLM 2 have demonstrated impressive performance
on a wide variety of biomedical NLP tasks. However, these models have hundreds
of billions of parameters, are computationally expensive to run, require users
to send their input data over the internet, and are trained on unknown data
sources. Can smaller, more targeted models compete? To address this question,
we build and release BioMedLM, a 2.7 billion parameter GPT-style autoregressive
model trained exclusively on PubMed abstracts and full articles. When
fine-tuned, BioMedLM can produce strong multiple-choice biomedical
question-answering results competitive with much larger models, such as
achieving a score of 57.3% on MedMCQA (dev) and 69.0% on the MMLU Medical
Genetics exam. BioMedLM can also be fine-tuned to produce useful answers to
patient questions on medical topics. This demonstrates that smaller models can
potentially serve as transparent, privacy-preserving, economical and
environmentally friendly foundations for particular NLP applications, such as
in biomedicine. The model is available on the Hugging Face Hub:
https://huggingface.co/stanford-crfm/BioMedLM.

---

## 7. [Gamba: Marry Gaussian Splatting with Mamba for single view 3D
  reconstruction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.18795)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.18795](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18795)

**Authors**: Qiuhong Shen, Xuanyu Yi, Zike Wu, Pan Zhou, Hanwang Zhang, Shuicheng Yan, Xinchao Wang

**Published**: 2024-03-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SkyworkAI/Gamba)

### Abstract

We tackle the challenge of efficiently reconstructing a 3D asset from a
single image with growing demands for automated 3D content creation pipelines.
Previous methods primarily rely on Score Distillation Sampling (SDS) and Neural
Radiance Fields (NeRF). Despite their significant success, these approaches
encounter practical limitations due to lengthy optimization and considerable
memory usage. In this report, we introduce Gamba, an end-to-end amortized 3D
reconstruction model from single-view images, emphasizing two main insights:
(1) 3D representation: leveraging a large number of 3D Gaussians for an
efficient 3D Gaussian splatting process; (2) Backbone design: introducing a
Mamba-based sequential network that facilitates context-dependent reasoning and
linear scalability with the sequence (token) length, accommodating a
substantial number of Gaussians. Gamba incorporates significant advancements in
data preprocessing, regularization design, and training methodologies. We
assessed Gamba against existing optimization-based and feed-forward 3D
generation approaches using the real-world scanned OmniObject3D dataset. Here,
Gamba demonstrates competitive generation capabilities, both qualitatively and
quantitatively, while achieving remarkable speed, approximately 0.6 second on a
single NVIDIA A100 GPU.

---

## 8. [EgoLifter: Open-world 3D Segmentation for Egocentric Perception](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.18118)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.18118](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18118)

**Authors**: Qiao Gu, Zhaoyang Lv, Duncan Frost, Simon Green, Julian Straub, Chris Sweeney

**Published**: 2024-03-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/egolifter)

### Abstract

In this paper we present EgoLifter, a novel system that can automatically
segment scenes captured from egocentric sensors into a complete decomposition
of individual 3D objects. The system is specifically designed for egocentric
data where scenes contain hundreds of objects captured from natural
(non-scanning) motion. EgoLifter adopts 3D Gaussians as the underlying
representation of 3D scenes and objects and uses segmentation masks from the
Segment Anything Model (SAM) as weak supervision to learn flexible and
promptable definitions of object instances free of any specific object
taxonomy. To handle the challenge of dynamic objects in ego-centric videos, we
design a transient prediction module that learns to filter out dynamic objects
in the 3D reconstruction. The result is a fully automatic pipeline that is able
to reconstruct 3D object instances as collections of 3D Gaussians that
collectively compose the entire scene. We created a new benchmark on the Aria
Digital Twin dataset that quantitatively demonstrates its state-of-the-art
performance in open-world 3D segmentation from natural egocentric input. We run
EgoLifter on various egocentric activity datasets which shows the promise of
the method for 3D egocentric perception at scale.

---

## 9. [FlexEdit: Flexible and Controllable Diffusion-based Object-centric Image
  Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.18605)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.18605](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18605)

**Authors**: Trong-Tung Nguyen, Duc-Anh Nguyen, Anh Tran, Cuong Pham

**Published**: 2024-03-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Our work addresses limitations seen in previous approaches for object-centric
editing problems, such as unrealistic results due to shape discrepancies and
limited control in object replacement or insertion. To this end, we introduce
FlexEdit, a flexible and controllable editing framework for objects where we
iteratively adjust latents at each denoising step using our FlexEdit block.
Initially, we optimize latents at test time to align with specified object
constraints. Then, our framework employs an adaptive mask, automatically
extracted during denoising, to protect the background while seamlessly blending
new content into the target image. We demonstrate the versatility of FlexEdit
in various object editing tasks and curate an evaluation test suite with
samples from both real and synthetic images, along with novel evaluation
metrics designed for object-centric editing. We conduct extensive experiments
on different editing scenarios, demonstrating the superiority of our editing
framework over recent advanced text-guided image editing methods. Our project
page is published at https://flex-edit.github.io/.

---

## 10. [Towards a World-English Language Model for On-Device Virtual Assistants](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.18783)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.18783](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18783)

**Authors**: Rricha Jalota, Lyan Verwimp, Markus Nussbaum-Thom, Amr Mousa, Arturo Argueta, Youssef Oualil

**Published**: 2024-03-27 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-28 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Neural Network Language Models (NNLMs) for Virtual Assistants (VAs) are
generally language-, region-, and in some cases, device-dependent, which
increases the effort to scale and maintain them. Combining NNLMs for one or
more of the categories is one way to improve scalability. In this work, we
combine regional variants of English to build a ``World English'' NNLM for
on-device VAs. In particular, we investigate the application of adapter
bottlenecks to model dialect-specific characteristics in our existing
production NNLMs {and enhance the multi-dialect baselines}. We find that
adapter modules are more effective in modeling dialects than specializing
entire sub-networks. Based on this insight and leveraging the design of our
production models, we introduce a new architecture for World English NNLM that
meets the accuracy, latency, and memory constraints of our single-dialect
models.

---
