# Daily Papers - 2024-03-08

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-03-08)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [Yi: Open Foundation Models by 01.AI](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.04652)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.04652](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04652)

**Authors**: 01. AI, Alex Young, Bei Chen, Chao Li, Chengen Huang, Ge Zhang, Guanwei Zhang, Heng Li, Jiangcheng Zhu, Jianqun Chen, Jing Chang, Kaidong Yu, Peng Liu, Qiang Liu, Shawn Yue, Senbin Yang, Shiming Yang, Tao Yu, Wen Xie, Wenhao Huang, Xiaohui Hu, Xiaoyi Ren, Xinyao Niu, Pengcheng Nie, Yuchi Xu, Yudong Liu, Yue Wang, Yuxuan Cai, Zhenyu Gu, Zhiyuan Liu, Zonghong Dai

**Published**: 2024-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 65

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/01-ai/yi)

### Abstract

We introduce the Yi model family, a series of language and multimodal models
that demonstrate strong multi-dimensional capabilities. The Yi model family is
based on 6B and 34B pretrained language models, then we extend them to chat
models, 200K long context models, depth-upscaled models, and vision-language
models. Our base models achieve strong performance on a wide range of
benchmarks like MMLU, and our finetuned chat models deliver strong human
preference rate on major evaluation platforms like AlpacaEval and Chatbot
Arena. Building upon our scalable super-computing infrastructure and the
classical transformer architecture, we attribute the performance of Yi models
primarily to its data quality resulting from our data-engineering efforts. For
pretraining, we construct 3.1 trillion tokens of English and Chinese corpora
using a cascaded data deduplication and quality filtering pipeline. For
finetuning, we polish a small scale (less than 10K) instruction dataset over
multiple iterations such that every single instance has been verified directly
by our machine learning engineers. For vision-language, we combine the chat
language model with a vision transformer encoder and train the model to align
visual representations to the semantic space of the language model. We further
extend the context length to 200K through lightweight continual pretraining and
demonstrate strong needle-in-a-haystack retrieval performance. We show that
extending the depth of the pretrained checkpoint through continual pretraining
further improves performance. We believe that given our current results,
continuing to scale up model parameters using thoroughly optimized data will
lead to even stronger frontier models.

---

## 2. [Teaching Large Language Models to Reason with Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.04642)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.04642](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04642)

**Authors**: Alex Havrilla, Yuqing Du, Sharath Chandra Raparthy, Christoforos Nalmpantis, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Maksym Zhuravinskyi, Eric Hambro, Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Roberta Raileanu

**Published**: 2024-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 49

### Abstract

Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has emerged as a
dominant approach for aligning LLM outputs with human preferences. Inspired by
the success of RLHF, we study the performance of multiple algorithms that learn
from feedback (Expert Iteration, Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO),
Return-Conditioned RL) on improving LLM reasoning capabilities. We investigate
both sparse and dense rewards provided to the LLM both heuristically and via a
learned reward model. We additionally start from multiple model sizes and
initializations both with and without supervised fine-tuning (SFT)
data. Overall, we find all algorithms perform comparably, with Expert Iteration
performing best in most cases. Surprisingly, we find the sample complexity of
Expert Iteration is similar to that of PPO, requiring at most on the order of
10^6 samples to converge from a pretrained checkpoint. We investigate why
this is the case, concluding that during RL training models fail to explore
significantly beyond solutions already produced by SFT models. Additionally, we
discuss a trade off between maj@1 and pass@96 metric performance during SFT
training and how conversely RL training improves both simultaneously. We then
conclude by discussing the implications of our findings for RLHF and the future
role of RL in LLM fine-tuning.

---

## 3. [Chatbot Arena: An Open Platform for Evaluating LLMs by Human Preference](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.04132)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.04132](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04132)

**Authors**: Wei-Lin Chiang, Lianmin Zheng, Ying Sheng, Anastasios Nikolas Angelopoulos, Tianle Li, Dacheng Li, Hao Zhang, Banghua Zhu, Michael Jordan, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Ion Stoica

**Published**: 2024-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 40

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have unlocked new capabilities and applications;
however, evaluating the alignment with human preferences still poses
significant challenges. To address this issue, we introduce Chatbot Arena, an
open platform for evaluating LLMs based on human preferences. Our methodology
employs a pairwise comparison approach and leverages input from a diverse user
base through crowdsourcing. The platform has been operational for several
months, amassing over 240K votes. This paper describes the platform, analyzes
the data we have collected so far, and explains the tried-and-true statistical
methods we are using for efficient and accurate evaluation and ranking of
models. We confirm that the crowdsourced questions are sufficiently diverse and
discriminating and that the crowdsourced human votes are in good agreement with
those of expert raters. These analyses collectively establish a robust
foundation for the credibility of Chatbot Arena. Because of its unique value
and openness, Chatbot Arena has emerged as one of the most referenced LLM
leaderboards, widely cited by leading LLM developers and companies. Our demo is
publicly available at https://chat.lmsys.org.

---

## 4. [StableDrag: Stable Dragging for Point-based Image Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.04437)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.04437](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04437)

**Authors**: Yutao Cui, Xiaotong Zhao, Guozhen Zhang, Shengming Cao, Kai Ma, Limin Wang

**Published**: 2024-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

### Abstract

Point-based image editing has attracted remarkable attention since the
emergence of DragGAN. Recently, DragDiffusion further pushes forward the
generative quality via adapting this dragging technique to diffusion models.
Despite these great success, this dragging scheme exhibits two major drawbacks,
namely inaccurate point tracking and incomplete motion supervision, which may
result in unsatisfactory dragging outcomes. To tackle these issues, we build a
stable and precise drag-based editing framework, coined as StableDrag, by
designing a discirminative point tracking method and a confidence-based latent
enhancement strategy for motion supervision. The former allows us to precisely
locate the updated handle points, thereby boosting the stability of long-range
manipulation, while the latter is responsible for guaranteeing the optimized
latent as high-quality as possible across all the manipulation steps. Thanks to
these unique designs, we instantiate two types of image editing models
including StableDrag-GAN and StableDrag-Diff, which attains more stable
dragging performance, through extensive qualitative experiments and
quantitative assessment on DragBench.

---

## 5. [LLMs in the Imaginarium: Tool Learning through Simulated Trial and Error](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.04746)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.04746](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04746)

**Authors**: Boshi Wang, Hao Fang, Jason Eisner, Benjamin Van Durme, Yu Su

**Published**: 2024-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/simulated-trial-and-error)

### Abstract

Tools are essential for large language models (LLMs) to acquire up-to-date
information and take consequential actions in external environments. Existing
work on tool-augmented LLMs primarily focuses on the broad coverage of tools
and the flexibility of adding new tools. However, a critical aspect that has
surprisingly been understudied is simply how accurately an LLM uses tools for
which it has been trained. We find that existing LLMs, including GPT-4 and
open-source LLMs specifically fine-tuned for tool use, only reach a correctness
rate in the range of 30% to 60%, far from reliable use in practice. We propose
a biologically inspired method for tool-augmented LLMs, simulated trial and
error (STE), that orchestrates three key mechanisms for successful tool use
behaviors in the biological system: trial and error, imagination, and memory.
Specifically, STE leverages an LLM's 'imagination' to simulate plausible
scenarios for using a tool, after which the LLM interacts with the tool to
learn from its execution feedback. Both short-term and long-term memory are
employed to improve the depth and breadth of the exploration, respectively.
Comprehensive experiments on ToolBench show that STE substantially improves
tool learning for LLMs under both in-context learning and fine-tuning settings,
bringing a boost of 46.7% to Mistral-Instruct-7B and enabling it to outperform
GPT-4. We also show effective continual learning of tools via a simple
experience replay strategy.

---

## 6. [How Far Are We from Intelligent Visual Deductive Reasoning?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.04732)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.04732](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04732)

**Authors**: Yizhe Zhang, He Bai, Ruixiang Zhang, Jiatao Gu, Shuangfei Zhai, Josh Susskind, Navdeep Jaitly

**Published**: 2024-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/apple/ml-rpm-bench)

### Abstract

Vision-Language Models (VLMs) such as GPT-4V have recently demonstrated
incredible strides on diverse vision language tasks. We dig into vision-based
deductive reasoning, a more sophisticated but less explored realm, and find
previously unexposed blindspots in the current SOTA VLMs. Specifically, we
leverage Raven's Progressive Matrices (RPMs), to assess VLMs' abilities to
perform multi-hop relational and deductive reasoning relying solely on visual
clues. We perform comprehensive evaluations of several popular VLMs employing
standard strategies such as in-context learning, self-consistency, and
Chain-of-thoughts (CoT) on three diverse datasets, including the Mensa IQ test,
IntelligenceTest, and RAVEN. The results reveal that despite the impressive
capabilities of LLMs in text-based reasoning, we are still far from achieving
comparable proficiency in visual deductive reasoning. We found that certain
standard strategies that are effective when applied to LLMs do not seamlessly
translate to the challenges presented by visual reasoning tasks. Moreover, a
detailed analysis reveals that VLMs struggle to solve these tasks mainly
because they are unable to perceive and comprehend multiple, confounding
abstract patterns in RPM examples.

---

## 7. [Common 7B Language Models Already Possess Strong Math Capabilities](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.04706)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.04706](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04706)

**Authors**: Chen Li, Weiqi Wang, Jingcheng Hu, Yixuan Wei, Nanning Zheng, Han Hu, Zheng Zhang, Houwen Peng

**Published**: 2024-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Mathematical capabilities were previously believed to emerge in common
language models only at a very large scale or require extensive math-related
pre-training. This paper shows that the LLaMA-2 7B model with common
pre-training already exhibits strong mathematical abilities, as evidenced by
its impressive accuracy of 97.7% and 72.0% on the GSM8K and MATH benchmarks,
respectively, when selecting the best response from 256 random generations. The
primary issue with the current base model is the difficulty in consistently
eliciting its inherent mathematical capabilities. Notably, the accuracy for the
first answer drops to 49.5% and 7.9% on the GSM8K and MATH benchmarks,
respectively. We find that simply scaling up the SFT data can significantly
enhance the reliability of generating correct answers. However, the potential
for extensive scaling is constrained by the scarcity of publicly available math
questions. To overcome this limitation, we employ synthetic data, which proves
to be nearly as effective as real data and shows no clear saturation when
scaled up to approximately one million samples. This straightforward approach
achieves an accuracy of 82.6% on GSM8K and 40.6% on MATH using LLaMA-2 7B
models, surpassing previous models by 14.2% and 20.8%, respectively. We also
provide insights into scaling behaviors across different reasoning complexities
and error types.

---

## 8. [Pix2Gif: Motion-Guided Diffusion for GIF Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.04634)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.04634](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04634)

**Authors**: Hitesh Kandala, Jianwei Yang

**Published**: 2024-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/XuweiyiChen/Pix2Gif)

### Abstract

We present Pix2Gif, a motion-guided diffusion model for image-to-GIF (video)
generation. We tackle this problem differently by formulating the task as an
image translation problem steered by text and motion magnitude prompts, as
shown in teaser fig. To ensure that the model adheres to motion guidance, we
propose a new motion-guided warping module to spatially transform the features
of the source image conditioned on the two types of prompts. Furthermore, we
introduce a perceptual loss to ensure the transformed feature map remains
within the same space as the target image, ensuring content consistency and
coherence. In preparation for the model training, we meticulously curated data
by extracting coherent image frames from the TGIF video-caption dataset, which
provides rich information about the temporal changes of subjects. After
pretraining, we apply our model in a zero-shot manner to a number of video
datasets. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate the
effectiveness of our model -- it not only captures the semantic prompt from
text but also the spatial ones from motion guidance. We train all our models
using a single node of 16xV100 GPUs. Code, dataset and models are made public
at: https://hiteshk03.github.io/Pix2Gif/.

---

## 9. [Radiative Gaussian Splatting for Efficient X-ray Novel View Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.04116)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.04116](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04116)

**Authors**: Yuanhao Cai, Yixun Liang, Jiahao Wang, Angtian Wang, Yulun Zhang, Xiaokang Yang, Alan Yuille

**Published**: 2024-03-07 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-08 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/caiyuanhao1998/x-gaussian)

### Abstract

X-ray is widely applied for transmission imaging due to its stronger
penetration than natural light. When rendering novel view X-ray projections,
existing methods mainly based on NeRF suffer from long training time and slow
inference speed. In this paper, we propose a 3D Gaussian splatting-based
framework, namely X-Gaussian, for X-ray novel view synthesis. Firstly, we
redesign a radiative Gaussian point cloud model inspired by the isotropic
nature of X-ray imaging. Our model excludes the influence of view direction
when learning to predict the radiation intensity of 3D points. Based on this
model, we develop a Differentiable Radiative Rasterization (DRR) with CUDA
implementation. Secondly, we customize an Angle-pose Cuboid Uniform
Initialization (ACUI) strategy that directly uses the parameters of the X-ray
scanner to compute the camera information and then uniformly samples point
positions within a cuboid enclosing the scanned object. Experiments show that
our X-Gaussian outperforms state-of-the-art methods by 6.5 dB while enjoying
less than 15% training time and over 73x inference speed. The application on
sparse-view CT reconstruction also reveals the practical values of our method.
Code and models will be publicly available at
https://github.com/caiyuanhao1998/X-Gaussian . A video demo of the training
process visualization is at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gDVf_Ngeghg .

---
