# Daily Papers - 2024-03-01

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-03-01)

Total papers: 11

---

## 1. [StarCoder 2 and The Stack v2: The Next Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.19173)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.19173](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19173)

**Authors**: Anton Lozhkov, Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Federico Cassano, Joel Lamy-Poirier, Nouamane Tazi, Ao Tang, Dmytro Pykhtar, Jiawei Liu, Yuxiang Wei, Tianyang Liu, Max Tian, Denis Kocetkov, Arthur Zucker, Younes Belkada, Zijian Wang, Qian Liu, Dmitry Abulkhanov, Indraneil Paul, Zhuang Li, Wen-Ding Li, Megan Risdal, Jia Li, Jian Zhu, Terry Yue Zhuo, Evgenii Zheltonozhskii, Nii Osae Osae Dade, Wenhao Yu, Lucas Krauß, Naman Jain, Yixuan Su, Xuanli He, Manan Dey, Edoardo Abati, Niklas Muennighoff, Xiangru Tang, Muhtasham Oblokulov, Christopher Akiki, Marc Marone, Chenghao Mou, Mayank Mishra, Alex Gu, Binyuan Hui, Tri Dao, Armel Zebaze, Olivier Dehaene, Nicolas Patry, Canwen Xu, Julian McAuley, Han Hu, Torsten Scholak, Sebastien Paquet, Jennifer Robinson, Carolyn Jane Anderson, Nicolas Chapados, Mostofa Patwary, Nima Tajbakhsh, Yacine Jernite, Carlos Muñoz Ferrandis, Lingming Zhang, Sean Hughes, Thomas Wolf, Arjun Guha, Leandro von Werra, Harm de Vries

**Published**: 2024-02-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 154

### Abstract

The BigCode project, an open-scientific collaboration focused on the
responsible development of Large Language Models for Code (Code LLMs),
introduces StarCoder2. In partnership with Software Heritage (SWH), we build
The Stack v2 on top of the digital commons of their source code archive.
Alongside the SWH repositories spanning 619 programming languages, we carefully
select other high-quality data sources, such as GitHub pull requests, Kaggle
notebooks, and code documentation. This results in a training set that is 4x
larger than the first StarCoder dataset. We train StarCoder2 models with 3B,
7B, and 15B parameters on 3.3 to 4.3 trillion tokens and thoroughly evaluate
them on a comprehensive set of Code LLM benchmarks. We find that our small
model, StarCoder2-3B, outperforms other Code LLMs of similar size on most
benchmarks, and also outperforms StarCoderBase-15B. Our large model,
StarCoder2- 15B, significantly outperforms other models of comparable size. In
addition, it matches or outperforms CodeLlama-34B, a model more than twice its
size. Although DeepSeekCoder- 33B is the best-performing model at code
completion for high-resource languages, we find that StarCoder2-15B outperforms
it on math and code reasoning benchmarks, as well as several low-resource
languages. We make the model weights available under an OpenRAIL license and
ensure full transparency regarding the training data by releasing the SoftWare
Heritage persistent IDentifiers (SWHIDs) of the source code data.

---

## 2. [Griffin: Mixing Gated Linear Recurrences with Local Attention for
  Efficient Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.19427)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.19427](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19427)

**Authors**: Soham De, Samuel L. Smith, Anushan Fernando, Aleksandar Botev, George Cristian-Muraru, Albert Gu, Ruba Haroun, Leonard Berrada, Yutian Chen, Srivatsan Srinivasan, Guillaume Desjardins, Arnaud Doucet, David Budden, Yee Whye Teh, Razvan Pascanu, Nando De Freitas, Caglar Gulcehre

**Published**: 2024-02-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 56

### Abstract

Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) have fast inference and scale efficiently on
long sequences, but they are difficult to train and hard to scale. We propose
Hawk, an RNN with gated linear recurrences, and Griffin, a hybrid model that
mixes gated linear recurrences with local attention. Hawk exceeds the reported
performance of Mamba on downstream tasks, while Griffin matches the performance
of Llama-2 despite being trained on over 6 times fewer tokens. We also show
that Griffin can extrapolate on sequences significantly longer than those seen
during training. Our models match the hardware efficiency of Transformers
during training, and during inference they have lower latency and significantly
higher throughput. We scale Griffin up to 14B parameters, and explain how to
shard our models for efficient distributed training.

---

## 3. [Beyond Language Models: Byte Models are Digital World Simulators](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.19155)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.19155](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19155)

**Authors**: Shangda Wu, Xu Tan, Zili Wang, Rui Wang, Xiaobing Li, Maosong Sun

**Published**: 2024-02-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 53

### Abstract

Traditional deep learning often overlooks bytes, the basic units of the
digital world, where all forms of information and operations are encoded and
manipulated in binary format. Inspired by the success of next token prediction
in natural language processing, we introduce bGPT, a model with next byte
prediction to simulate the digital world. bGPT matches specialized models in
performance across various modalities, including text, audio, and images, and
offers new possibilities for predicting, simulating, and diagnosing algorithm
or hardware behaviour. It has almost flawlessly replicated the process of
converting symbolic music data, achieving a low error rate of 0.0011 bits per
byte in converting ABC notation to MIDI format. In addition, bGPT demonstrates
exceptional capabilities in simulating CPU behaviour, with an accuracy
exceeding 99.99% in executing various operations. Leveraging next byte
prediction, models like bGPT can directly learn from vast binary data,
effectively simulating the intricate patterns of the digital world.

---

## 4. [Panda-70M: Captioning 70M Videos with Multiple Cross-Modality Teachers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.19479)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.19479](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19479)

**Authors**: Tsai-Shien Chen, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Willi Menapace, Ekaterina Deyneka, Hsiang-wei Chao, Byung Eun Jeon, Yuwei Fang, Hsin-Ying Lee, Jian Ren, Ming-Hsuan Yang, Sergey Tulyakov

**Published**: 2024-02-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 35

### Abstract

The quality of the data and annotation upper-bounds the quality of a
downstream model. While there exist large text corpora and image-text pairs,
high-quality video-text data is much harder to collect. First of all, manual
labeling is more time-consuming, as it requires an annotator to watch an entire
video. Second, videos have a temporal dimension, consisting of several scenes
stacked together, and showing multiple actions. Accordingly, to establish a
video dataset with high-quality captions, we propose an automatic approach
leveraging multimodal inputs, such as textual video description, subtitles, and
individual video frames. Specifically, we curate 3.8M high-resolution videos
from the publicly available HD-VILA-100M dataset. We then split them into
semantically consistent video clips, and apply multiple cross-modality teacher
models to obtain captions for each video. Next, we finetune a retrieval model
on a small subset where the best caption of each video is manually selected and
then employ the model in the whole dataset to select the best caption as the
annotation. In this way, we get 70M videos paired with high-quality text
captions. We dub the dataset as Panda-70M. We show the value of the proposed
dataset on three downstream tasks: video captioning, video and text retrieval,
and text-driven video generation. The models trained on the proposed data score
substantially better on the majority of metrics across all the tasks.

---

## 5. [Humanoid Locomotion as Next Token Prediction](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.19469)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.19469](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19469)

**Authors**: Ilija Radosavovic, Bike Zhang, Baifeng Shi, Jathushan Rajasegaran, Sarthak Kamat, Trevor Darrell, Koushil Sreenath, Jitendra Malik

**Published**: 2024-02-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

We cast real-world humanoid control as a next token prediction problem, akin
to predicting the next word in language. Our model is a causal transformer
trained via autoregressive prediction of sensorimotor trajectories. To account
for the multi-modal nature of the data, we perform prediction in a
modality-aligned way, and for each input token predict the next token from the
same modality. This general formulation enables us to leverage data with
missing modalities, like video trajectories without actions. We train our model
on a collection of simulated trajectories coming from prior neural network
policies, model-based controllers, motion capture data, and YouTube videos of
humans. We show that our model enables a full-sized humanoid to walk in San
Francisco zero-shot. Our model can transfer to the real world even when trained
on only 27 hours of walking data, and can generalize to commands not seen
during training like walking backward. These findings suggest a promising path
toward learning challenging real-world control tasks by generative modeling of
sensorimotor trajectories.

---

## 6. [MOSAIC: A Modular System for Assistive and Interactive Cooking](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.18796)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.18796](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18796)

**Authors**: Huaxiaoyue Wang, Kushal Kedia, Juntao Ren, Rahma Abdullah, Atiksh Bhardwaj, Angela Chao, Kelly Y Chen, Nathaniel Chin, Prithwish Dan, Xinyi Fan, Gonzalo Gonzalez-Pumariega, Aditya Kompella, Maximus Adrian Pace, Yash Sharma, Xiangwan Sun, Neha Sunkara, Sanjiban Choudhury

**Published**: 2024-02-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

**Links**: [Project Page](https://portal-cornell.github.io/MOSAIC/)

### Abstract

We present MOSAIC, a modular architecture for home robots to perform complex
collaborative tasks, such as cooking with everyday users. MOSAIC tightly
collaborates with humans, interacts with users using natural language,
coordinates multiple robots, and manages an open vocabulary of everyday
objects. At its core, MOSAIC employs modularity: it leverages multiple
large-scale pre-trained models for general tasks like language and image
recognition, while using streamlined modules designed for task-specific
control. We extensively evaluate MOSAIC on 60 end-to-end trials where two
robots collaborate with a human user to cook a combination of 6 recipes. We
also extensively test individual modules with 180 episodes of visuomotor
picking, 60 episodes of human motion forecasting, and 46 online user
evaluations of the task planner. We show that MOSAIC is able to efficiently
collaborate with humans by running the overall system end-to-end with a real
human user, completing 68.3% (41/60) collaborative cooking trials of 6
different recipes with a subtask completion rate of 91.6%. Finally, we discuss
the limitations of the current system and exciting open challenges in this
domain. The project's website is at https://portal-cornell.github.io/MOSAIC/

---

## 7. [DistriFusion: Distributed Parallel Inference for High-Resolution
  Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.19481)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.19481](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19481)

**Authors**: Muyang Li, Tianle Cai, Jiaxin Cao, Qinsheng Zhang, Han Cai, Junjie Bai, Yangqing Jia, Ming-Yu Liu, Kai Li, Song Han

**Published**: 2024-02-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mit-han-lab/distrifuser)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have achieved great success in synthesizing high-quality
images. However, generating high-resolution images with diffusion models is
still challenging due to the enormous computational costs, resulting in a
prohibitive latency for interactive applications. In this paper, we propose
DistriFusion to tackle this problem by leveraging parallelism across multiple
GPUs. Our method splits the model input into multiple patches and assigns each
patch to a GPU. However, na\"{\i}vely implementing such an algorithm breaks the
interaction between patches and loses fidelity, while incorporating such an
interaction will incur tremendous communication overhead. To overcome this
dilemma, we observe the high similarity between the input from adjacent
diffusion steps and propose displaced patch parallelism, which takes advantage
of the sequential nature of the diffusion process by reusing the pre-computed
feature maps from the previous timestep to provide context for the current
step. Therefore, our method supports asynchronous communication, which can be
pipelined by computation. Extensive experiments show that our method can be
applied to recent Stable Diffusion XL with no quality degradation and achieve
up to a 6.1times speedup on eight NVIDIA A100s compared to one. Our code is
publicly available at https://github.com/mit-han-lab/distrifuser.

---

## 8. [Simple linear attention language models balance the recall-throughput
  tradeoff](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.18668)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.18668](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18668)

**Authors**: Simran Arora, Sabri Eyuboglu, Michael Zhang, Aman Timalsina, Silas Alberti, Dylan Zinsley, James Zou, Atri Rudra, Christopher Ré

**Published**: 2024-02-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hazyresearch/based)

### Abstract

Recent work has shown that attention-based language models excel at recall,
the ability to ground generations in tokens previously seen in context.
However, the efficiency of attention-based models is bottle-necked during
inference by the KV-cache's aggressive memory consumption. In this work, we
explore whether we can improve language model efficiency (e.g. by reducing
memory consumption) without compromising on recall. By applying experiments and
theory to a broad set of architectures, we identify a key tradeoff between a
model's state size and recall ability. We show that efficient alternatives to
attention (e.g. H3, Mamba, RWKV) maintain a fixed-size recurrent state, but
struggle at recall. We propose BASED a simple architecture combining linear and
sliding window attention. By varying BASED window size and linear attention
feature dimension, we can dial the state size and traverse the pareto frontier
of the recall-memory tradeoff curve, recovering the full quality of attention
on one end and the small state size of attention-alternatives on the other. We
train language models up to 1.3b parameters and show that BASED matches the
strongest sub-quadratic models (e.g. Mamba) in perplexity and outperforms them
on real-world recall-intensive tasks by 6.22 accuracy points. Implementations
of linear attention are often less efficient than optimized standard attention
implementations. To make BASED competitive, we develop IO-aware algorithms that
enable 24x higher throughput on language generation than FlashAttention-2, when
generating 1024 tokens using 1.3b parameter models. Code for this work is
provided at: https://github.com/HazyResearch/based.

---

## 9. [Priority Sampling of Large Language Models for Compilers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.18734)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.18734](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18734)

**Authors**: Dejan Grubisic, Chris Cummins, Volker Seeker, Hugh Leather

**Published**: 2024-02-28 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Large language models show great potential in generating and optimizing code.
Widely used sampling methods such as Nucleus Sampling increase the diversity of
generation but often produce repeated samples for low temperatures and
incoherent samples for high temperatures. Furthermore, the temperature
coefficient has to be tuned for each task, limiting its usability. We present
Priority Sampling, a simple and deterministic sampling technique that produces
unique samples ordered by the model's confidence. Each new sample expands the
unexpanded token with the highest probability in the augmented search tree.
Additionally, Priority Sampling supports generation based on regular expression
that provides a controllable and structured exploration process. Priority
Sampling outperforms Nucleus Sampling for any number of samples, boosting the
performance of the original model from 2.87% to 5% improvement over -Oz.
Moreover, it outperforms the autotuner used for the generation of labels for
the training of the original model in just 30 samples.

---

## 10. [Trajectory Consistency Distillation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.19159)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.19159](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19159)

**Authors**: Jianbin Zheng, Minghui Hu, Zhongyi Fan, Chaoyue Wang, Changxing Ding, Dacheng Tao, Tat-Jen Cham

**Published**: 2024-02-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jabir-zheng/TCD)

### Abstract

Latent Consistency Model (LCM) extends the Consistency Model to the latent
space and leverages the guided consistency distillation technique to achieve
impressive performance in accelerating text-to-image synthesis. However, we
observed that LCM struggles to generate images with both clarity and detailed
intricacy. To address this limitation, we initially delve into and elucidate
the underlying causes. Our investigation identifies that the primary issue
stems from errors in three distinct areas. Consequently, we introduce
Trajectory Consistency Distillation (TCD), which encompasses trajectory
consistency function and strategic stochastic sampling. The trajectory
consistency function diminishes the distillation errors by broadening the scope
of the self-consistency boundary condition and endowing the TCD with the
ability to accurately trace the entire trajectory of the Probability Flow ODE.
Additionally, strategic stochastic sampling is specifically designed to
circumvent the accumulated errors inherent in multi-step consistency sampling,
which is meticulously tailored to complement the TCD model. Experiments
demonstrate that TCD not only significantly enhances image quality at low NFEs
but also yields more detailed results compared to the teacher model at high
NFEs.

---

## 11. [ViewFusion: Towards Multi-View Consistency via Interpolated Denoising](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.18842)

**ArXiv ID**: [2402.18842](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18842)

**Authors**: Xianghui Yang, Yan Zuo, Sameera Ramasinghe, Loris Bazzani, Gil Avraham, Anton van den Hengel

**Published**: 2024-02-29 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Wi-sc/ViewFusion)

### Abstract

Novel-view synthesis through diffusion models has demonstrated remarkable
potential for generating diverse and high-quality images. Yet, the independent
process of image generation in these prevailing methods leads to challenges in
maintaining multiple-view consistency. To address this, we introduce
ViewFusion, a novel, training-free algorithm that can be seamlessly integrated
into existing pre-trained diffusion models. Our approach adopts an
auto-regressive method that implicitly leverages previously generated views as
context for the next view generation, ensuring robust multi-view consistency
during the novel-view generation process. Through a diffusion process that
fuses known-view information via interpolated denoising, our framework
successfully extends single-view conditioned models to work in multiple-view
conditional settings without any additional fine-tuning. Extensive experimental
results demonstrate the effectiveness of ViewFusion in generating consistent
and detailed novel views.

---
