# Daily Papers - 2024-03-27

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-03-27)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [The Unreasonable Ineffectiveness of the Deeper Layers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.17887)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.17887](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17887)

**Authors**: Andrey Gromov, Kushal Tirumala, Hassan Shapourian, Paolo Glorioso, Daniel A. Roberts

**Published**: 2024-03-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 82

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/arcee-ai/PruneMe)

### Abstract

We empirically study a simple layer-pruning strategy for popular families of
open-weight pretrained LLMs, finding minimal degradation of performance on
different question-answering benchmarks until after a large fraction (up to
half) of the layers are removed. To prune these models, we identify the optimal
block of layers to prune by considering similarity across layers; then, to
"heal" the damage, we perform a small amount of finetuning. In particular, we
use parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) methods, specifically quantization
and Low Rank Adapters (QLoRA), such that each of our experiments can be
performed on a single A100 GPU. From a practical perspective, these results
suggest that layer pruning methods can complement other PEFT strategies to
further reduce computational resources of finetuning on the one hand, and can
improve the memory and latency of inference on the other hand. From a
scientific perspective, the robustness of these LLMs to the deletion of layers
implies either that current pretraining methods are not properly leveraging the
parameters in the deeper layers of the network or that the shallow layers play
a critical role in storing knowledge.

---

## 2. [InternLM2 Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.17297)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.17297](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17297)

**Authors**: Zheng Cai, Maosong Cao, Haojiong Chen, Kai Chen, Keyu Chen, Xin Chen, Xun Chen, Zehui Chen, Zhi Chen, Pei Chu, Xiaoyi Dong, Haodong Duan, Qi Fan, Zhaoye Fei, Yang Gao, Jiaye Ge, Chenya Gu, Yuzhe Gu, Tao Gui, Aijia Guo, Qipeng Guo, Conghui He, Yingfan Hu, Ting Huang, Tao Jiang, Penglong Jiao, Zhenjiang Jin, Zhikai Lei, Jiaxing Li, Jingwen Li, Linyang Li, Shuaibin Li, Wei Li, Yining Li, Hongwei Liu, Jiangning Liu, Jiawei Hong, Kaiwen Liu, Kuikun Liu, Xiaoran Liu, Chengqi Lv, Haijun Lv, Kai Lv, Li Ma, Runyuan Ma, Zerun Ma, Wenchang Ning, Linke Ouyang, Jiantao Qiu, Yuan Qu, Fukai Shang, Yunfan Shao, Demin Song, Zifan Song, Zhihao Sui, Peng Sun, Yu Sun, Huanze Tang, Bin Wang, Guoteng Wang, Jiaqi Wang, Jiayu Wang, Rui Wang, Yudong Wang, Ziyi Wang, Xingjian Wei, Qizhen Weng, Fan Wu, Yingtong Xiong, Chao Xu, Ruiliang Xu, Hang Yan, Yirong Yan, Xiaogui Yang, Haochen Ye, Huaiyuan Ying, Jia Yu, Jing Yu, Yuhang Zang, Chuyu Zhang, Li Zhang, Pan Zhang, Peng Zhang, Ruijie Zhang, Shuo Zhang, Songyang Zhang, Wenjian Zhang, Wenwei Zhang, Xingcheng Zhang, Xinyue Zhang, Hui Zhao, Qian Zhao, Xiaomeng Zhao, Fengzhe Zhou, Zaida Zhou, Jingming Zhuo, Yicheng Zou, Xipeng Qiu, Yu Qiao, Dahua Lin

**Published**: 2024-03-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 34

### Abstract

The evolution of Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT and GPT-4 has
sparked discussions on the advent of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI).
However, replicating such advancements in open-source models has been
challenging. This paper introduces InternLM2, an open-source LLM that
outperforms its predecessors in comprehensive evaluations across 6 dimensions
and 30 benchmarks, long-context modeling, and open-ended subjective evaluations
through innovative pre-training and optimization techniques. The pre-training
process of InternLM2 is meticulously detailed, highlighting the preparation of
diverse data types including text, code, and long-context data. InternLM2
efficiently captures long-term dependencies, initially trained on 4k tokens
before advancing to 32k tokens in pre-training and fine-tuning stages,
exhibiting remarkable performance on the 200k ``Needle-in-a-Haystack" test.
InternLM2 is further aligned using Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) and a novel
Conditional Online Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (COOL RLHF)
strategy that addresses conflicting human preferences and reward hacking. By
releasing InternLM2 models in different training stages and model sizes, we
provide the community with insights into the model's evolution.

---

## 3. [2D Gaussian Splatting for Geometrically Accurate Radiance Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.17888)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.17888](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17888)

**Authors**: Binbin Huang, Zehao Yu, Anpei Chen, Andreas Geiger, Shenghua Gao

**Published**: 2024-03-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hbb1/2d-gaussian-splatting)

### Abstract

3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) has recently revolutionized radiance field
reconstruction, achieving high quality novel view synthesis and fast rendering
speed without baking. However, 3DGS fails to accurately represent surfaces due
to the multi-view inconsistent nature of 3D Gaussians. We present 2D Gaussian
Splatting (2DGS), a novel approach to model and reconstruct geometrically
accurate radiance fields from multi-view images. Our key idea is to collapse
the 3D volume into a set of 2D oriented planar Gaussian disks. Unlike 3D
Gaussians, 2D Gaussians provide view-consistent geometry while modeling
surfaces intrinsically. To accurately recover thin surfaces and achieve stable
optimization, we introduce a perspective-accurate 2D splatting process
utilizing ray-splat intersection and rasterization. Additionally, we
incorporate depth distortion and normal consistency terms to further enhance
the quality of the reconstructions. We demonstrate that our differentiable
renderer allows for noise-free and detailed geometry reconstruction while
maintaining competitive appearance quality, fast training speed, and real-time
rendering. Our code will be made publicly available.

---

## 4. [Improving Text-to-Image Consistency via Automatic Prompt Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.17804)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.17804](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17804)

**Authors**: Oscar Mañas, Pietro Astolfi, Melissa Hall, Candace Ross, Jack Urbanek, Adina Williams, Aishwarya Agrawal, Adriana Romero-Soriano, Michal Drozdzal

**Published**: 2024-03-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

Impressive advances in text-to-image (T2I) generative models have yielded a
plethora of high performing models which are able to generate aesthetically
appealing, photorealistic images. Despite the progress, these models still
struggle to produce images that are consistent with the input prompt,
oftentimes failing to capture object quantities, relations and attributes
properly. Existing solutions to improve prompt-image consistency suffer from
the following challenges: (1) they oftentimes require model fine-tuning, (2)
they only focus on nearby prompt samples, and (3) they are affected by
unfavorable trade-offs among image quality, representation diversity, and
prompt-image consistency. In this paper, we address these challenges and
introduce a T2I optimization-by-prompting framework, OPT2I, which leverages a
large language model (LLM) to improve prompt-image consistency in T2I models.
Our framework starts from a user prompt and iteratively generates revised
prompts with the goal of maximizing a consistency score. Our extensive
validation on two datasets, MSCOCO and PartiPrompts, shows that OPT2I can boost
the initial consistency score by up to 24.9% in terms of DSG score while
preserving the FID and increasing the recall between generated and real data.
Our work paves the way toward building more reliable and robust T2I systems by
harnessing the power of LLMs.

---

## 5. [TC4D: Trajectory-Conditioned Text-to-4D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.17920)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.17920](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17920)

**Authors**: Sherwin Bahmani, Xian Liu, Yifan Wang, Ivan Skorokhodov, Victor Rong, Ziwei Liu, Xihui Liu, Jeong Joon Park, Sergey Tulyakov, Gordon Wetzstein, Andrea Tagliasacchi, David B. Lindell

**Published**: 2024-03-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Recent techniques for text-to-4D generation synthesize dynamic 3D scenes
using supervision from pre-trained text-to-video models. However, existing
representations for motion, such as deformation models or time-dependent neural
representations, are limited in the amount of motion they can generate-they
cannot synthesize motion extending far beyond the bounding box used for volume
rendering. The lack of a more flexible motion model contributes to the gap in
realism between 4D generation methods and recent, near-photorealistic video
generation models. Here, we propose TC4D: trajectory-conditioned text-to-4D
generation, which factors motion into global and local components. We represent
the global motion of a scene's bounding box using rigid transformation along a
trajectory parameterized by a spline. We learn local deformations that conform
to the global trajectory using supervision from a text-to-video model. Our
approach enables the synthesis of scenes animated along arbitrary trajectories,
compositional scene generation, and significant improvements to the realism and
amount of generated motion, which we evaluate qualitatively and through a user
study. Video results can be viewed on our website:
https://sherwinbahmani.github.io/tc4d.

---

## 6. [Octree-GS: Towards Consistent Real-time Rendering with LOD-Structured 3D
  Gaussians](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.17898)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.17898](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17898)

**Authors**: Kerui Ren, Lihan Jiang, Tao Lu, Mulin Yu, Linning Xu, Zhangkai Ni, Bo Dai

**Published**: 2024-03-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/city-super/Octree-GS)

### Abstract

The recent 3D Gaussian splatting (3D-GS) has shown remarkable rendering
fidelity and efficiency compared to NeRF-based neural scene representations.
While demonstrating the potential for real-time rendering, 3D-GS encounters
rendering bottlenecks in large scenes with complex details due to an excessive
number of Gaussian primitives located within the viewing frustum. This
limitation is particularly noticeable in zoom-out views and can lead to
inconsistent rendering speeds in scenes with varying details. Moreover, it
often struggles to capture the corresponding level of details at different
scales with its heuristic density control operation. Inspired by the
Level-of-Detail (LOD) techniques, we introduce Octree-GS, featuring an
LOD-structured 3D Gaussian approach supporting level-of-detail decomposition
for scene representation that contributes to the final rendering results. Our
model dynamically selects the appropriate level from the set of
multi-resolution anchor points, ensuring consistent rendering performance with
adaptive LOD adjustments while maintaining high-fidelity rendering results.

---

## 7. [AniPortrait: Audio-Driven Synthesis of Photorealistic Portrait Animation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.17694)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.17694](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17694)

**Authors**: Huawei Wei, Zejun Yang, Zhisheng Wang

**Published**: 2024-03-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/scutzzj/aniportrait)

### Abstract

In this study, we propose AniPortrait, a novel framework for generating
high-quality animation driven by audio and a reference portrait image. Our
methodology is divided into two stages. Initially, we extract 3D intermediate
representations from audio and project them into a sequence of 2D facial
landmarks. Subsequently, we employ a robust diffusion model, coupled with a
motion module, to convert the landmark sequence into photorealistic and
temporally consistent portrait animation. Experimental results demonstrate the
superiority of AniPortrait in terms of facial naturalness, pose diversity, and
visual quality, thereby offering an enhanced perceptual experience. Moreover,
our methodology exhibits considerable potential in terms of flexibility and
controllability, which can be effectively applied in areas such as facial
motion editing or face reenactment. We release code and model weights at
https://github.com/scutzzj/AniPortrait

---

## 8. [DreamPolisher: Towards High-Quality Text-to-3D Generation via Geometric
  Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.17237)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.17237](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17237)

**Authors**: Yuanze Lin, Ronald Clark, Philip Torr

**Published**: 2024-03-25 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

We present DreamPolisher, a novel Gaussian Splatting based method with
geometric guidance, tailored to learn cross-view consistency and intricate
detail from textual descriptions. While recent progress on text-to-3D
generation methods have been promising, prevailing methods often fail to ensure
view-consistency and textural richness. This problem becomes particularly
noticeable for methods that work with text input alone. To address this, we
propose a two-stage Gaussian Splatting based approach that enforces geometric
consistency among views. Initially, a coarse 3D generation undergoes refinement
via geometric optimization. Subsequently, we use a ControlNet driven refiner
coupled with the geometric consistency term to improve both texture fidelity
and overall consistency of the generated 3D asset. Empirical evaluations across
diverse textual prompts spanning various object categories demonstrate the
efficacy of DreamPolisher in generating consistent and realistic 3D objects,
aligning closely with the semantics of the textual instructions.

---

## 9. [Fully-fused Multi-Layer Perceptrons on Intel Data Center GPUs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.17607)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.17607](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17607)

**Authors**: Kai Yuan, Christoph Bauinger, Xiangyi Zhang, Pascal Baehr, Matthias Kirchhart, Darius Dabert, Adrien Tousnakhoff, Pierre Boudier, Michael Paulitsch

**Published**: 2024-03-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/intel/tiny-dpcpp-nn)

### Abstract

This paper presents a SYCL implementation of Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLPs),
which targets and is optimized for the Intel Data Center GPU Max 1550. To
increase the performance, our implementation minimizes the slow global memory
accesses by maximizing the data reuse within the general register file and the
shared local memory by fusing the operations in each layer of the MLP. We show
with a simple roofline model that this results in a significant increase in the
arithmetic intensity, leading to improved performance, especially for
inference. We compare our approach to a similar CUDA implementation for MLPs
and show that our implementation on the Intel Data Center GPU outperforms the
CUDA implementation on Nvidia's H100 GPU by a factor up to 2.84 in inference
and 1.75 in training. The paper also showcases the efficiency of our SYCL
implementation in three significant areas: Image Compression, Neural Radiance
Fields, and Physics-Informed Machine Learning. In all cases, our implementation
outperforms the off-the-shelf Intel Extension for PyTorch (IPEX) implementation
on the same Intel GPU by up to a factor of 30 and the CUDA PyTorch version on
Nvidia's H100 GPU by up to a factor 19. The code can be found at
https://github.com/intel/tiny-dpcpp-nn.

---
