# Daily Papers - 2024-03-13

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-03-13)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [MoAI: Mixture of All Intelligence for Large Language and Vision Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.07508)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.07508](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07508)

**Authors**: Byung-Kwan Lee, Beomchan Park, Chae Won Kim, Yong Man Ro

**Published**: 2024-03-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 77

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ByungKwanLee/MoAI)

### Abstract

The rise of large language models (LLMs) and instruction tuning has led to
the current trend of instruction-tuned large language and vision models
(LLVMs). This trend involves either meticulously curating numerous instruction
tuning datasets tailored to specific objectives or enlarging LLVMs to manage
vast amounts of vision language (VL) data. However, current LLVMs have
disregarded the detailed and comprehensive real-world scene understanding
available from specialized computer vision (CV) models in visual perception
tasks such as segmentation, detection, scene graph generation (SGG), and
optical character recognition (OCR). Instead, the existing LLVMs rely mainly on
the large capacity and emergent capabilities of their LLM backbones. Therefore,
we present a new LLVM, Mixture of All Intelligence (MoAI), which leverages
auxiliary visual information obtained from the outputs of external
segmentation, detection, SGG, and OCR models. MoAI operates through two newly
introduced modules: MoAI-Compressor and MoAI-Mixer. After verbalizing the
outputs of the external CV models, the MoAI-Compressor aligns and condenses
them to efficiently use relevant auxiliary visual information for VL tasks.
MoAI-Mixer then blends three types of intelligence (1) visual features, (2)
auxiliary features from the external CV models, and (3) language features by
utilizing the concept of Mixture of Experts. Through this integration, MoAI
significantly outperforms both open-source and closed-source LLVMs in numerous
zero-shot VL tasks, particularly those related to real-world scene
understanding such as object existence, positions, relations, and OCR without
enlarging the model size or curating extra visual instruction tuning datasets.

---

## 2. [Chronos: Learning the Language of Time Series](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.07815)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.07815](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07815)

**Authors**: Abdul Fatir Ansari, Lorenzo Stella, Caner Turkmen, Xiyuan Zhang, Pedro Mercado, Huibin Shen, Oleksandr Shchur, Syama Sundar Rangapuram, Sebastian Pineda Arango, Shubham Kapoor, Jasper Zschiegner, Danielle C. Maddix, Michael W. Mahoney, Kari Torkkola, Andrew Gordon Wilson, Michael Bohlke-Schneider, Yuyang Wang

**Published**: 2024-03-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 48

### Abstract

We introduce Chronos, a simple yet effective framework for pretrained
probabilistic time series models. Chronos tokenizes time series values using
scaling and quantization into a fixed vocabulary and trains existing
transformer-based language model architectures on these tokenized time series
via the cross-entropy loss. We pretrained Chronos models based on the T5 family
(ranging from 20M to 710M parameters) on a large collection of publicly
available datasets, complemented by a synthetic dataset that we generated via
Gaussian processes to improve generalization. In a comprehensive benchmark
consisting of 42 datasets, and comprising both classical local models and deep
learning methods, we show that Chronos models: (a) significantly outperform
other methods on datasets that were part of the training corpus; and (b) have
comparable and occasionally superior zero-shot performance on new datasets,
relative to methods that were trained specifically on them. Our results
demonstrate that Chronos models can leverage time series data from diverse
domains to improve zero-shot accuracy on unseen forecasting tasks, positioning
pretrained models as a viable tool to greatly simplify forecasting pipelines.

---

## 3. [Branch-Train-MiX: Mixing Expert LLMs into a Mixture-of-Experts LLM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.07816)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.07816](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07816)

**Authors**: Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Olga Golovneva, Vasu Sharma, Hu Xu, Xi Victoria Lin, Baptiste Rozière, Jacob Kahn, Daniel Li, Wen-tau Yih, Jason Weston, Xian Li

**Published**: 2024-03-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 44

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Leeroo-AI/mergoo)

### Abstract

We investigate efficient methods for training Large Language Models (LLMs) to
possess capabilities in multiple specialized domains, such as coding, math
reasoning and world knowledge. Our method, named Branch-Train-MiX (BTX), starts
from a seed model, which is branched to train experts in embarrassingly
parallel fashion with high throughput and reduced communication cost. After
individual experts are asynchronously trained, BTX brings together their
feedforward parameters as experts in Mixture-of-Expert (MoE) layers and
averages the remaining parameters, followed by an MoE-finetuning stage to learn
token-level routing. BTX generalizes two special cases, the Branch-Train-Merge
method, which does not have the MoE finetuning stage to learn routing, and
sparse upcycling, which omits the stage of training experts asynchronously.
Compared to alternative approaches, BTX achieves the best accuracy-efficiency
tradeoff.

---

## 4. [Synth^2: Boosting Visual-Language Models with Synthetic Captions and
  Image Embeddings](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.07750)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.07750](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07750)

**Authors**: Sahand Sharifzadeh, Christos Kaplanis, Shreya Pathak, Dharshan Kumaran, Anastasija Ilic, Jovana Mitrovic, Charles Blundell, Andrea Banino

**Published**: 2024-03-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

The creation of high-quality human-labeled image-caption datasets presents a
significant bottleneck in the development of Visual-Language Models (VLMs). We
propose a novel approach that leverages the strengths of Large Language Models
(LLMs) and image generation models to create synthetic image-text pairs for
efficient and effective VLM training. Our method employs pretraining a
text-to-image model to synthesize image embeddings starting from captions
generated by an LLM. These synthetic pairs are then used to train a VLM.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that the VLM trained with synthetic data
exhibits comparable performance on image captioning, while requiring a fraction
of the data used by models trained solely on human-annotated data. In
particular, we outperform the baseline by 17% through augmentation with a
synthetic dataset. Furthermore, we show that synthesizing in the image
embedding space is 25% faster than in the pixel space. This research introduces
a promising technique for generating large-scale, customizable image datasets,
leading to enhanced VLM performance and wider applicability across various
domains, all with improved data efficiency and resource utilization.

---

## 5. [Motion Mamba: Efficient and Long Sequence Motion Generation with
  Hierarchical and Bidirectional Selective SSM](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.07487)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.07487](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07487)

**Authors**: Zeyu Zhang, Akide Liu, Ian Reid, Richard Hartley, Bohan Zhuang, Hao Tang

**Published**: 2024-03-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/steve-zeyu-zhang/MotionMamba)

### Abstract

Human motion generation stands as a significant pursuit in generative
computer vision, while achieving long-sequence and efficient motion generation
remains challenging. Recent advancements in state space models (SSMs), notably
Mamba, have showcased considerable promise in long sequence modeling with an
efficient hardware-aware design, which appears to be a promising direction to
build motion generation model upon it. Nevertheless, adapting SSMs to motion
generation faces hurdles since the lack of a specialized design architecture to
model motion sequence. To address these challenges, we propose Motion Mamba, a
simple and efficient approach that presents the pioneering motion generation
model utilized SSMs. Specifically, we design a Hierarchical Temporal Mamba
(HTM) block to process temporal data by ensemble varying numbers of isolated
SSM modules across a symmetric U-Net architecture aimed at preserving motion
consistency between frames. We also design a Bidirectional Spatial Mamba (BSM)
block to bidirectionally process latent poses, to enhance accurate motion
generation within a temporal frame. Our proposed method achieves up to 50% FID
improvement and up to 4 times faster on the HumanML3D and KIT-ML datasets
compared to the previous best diffusion-based method, which demonstrates strong
capabilities of high-quality long sequence motion modeling and real-time human
motion generation. See project website
https://steve-zeyu-zhang.github.io/MotionMamba/

---

## 6. [DragAnything: Motion Control for Anything using Entity Representation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.07420)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.07420](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07420)

**Authors**: Wejia Wu, Zhuang Li, Yuchao Gu, Rui Zhao, Yefei He, David Junhao Zhang, Mike Zheng Shou, Yan Li, Tingting Gao, Di Zhang

**Published**: 2024-03-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/showlab/draganything)

### Abstract

We introduce DragAnything, which utilizes a entity representation to achieve
motion control for any object in controllable video generation. Comparison to
existing motion control methods, DragAnything offers several advantages.
Firstly, trajectory-based is more userfriendly for interaction, when acquiring
other guidance signals (e.g., masks, depth maps) is labor-intensive. Users only
need to draw a line (trajectory) during interaction. Secondly, our entity
representation serves as an open-domain embedding capable of representing any
object, enabling the control of motion for diverse entities, including
background. Lastly, our entity representation allows simultaneous and distinct
motion control for multiple objects. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our
DragAnything achieves state-of-the-art performance for FVD, FID, and User
Study, particularly in terms of object motion control, where our method
surpasses the previous methods (e.g., DragNUWA) by 26% in human voting.

---

## 7. [FAX: Scalable and Differentiable Federated Primitives in JAX](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.07128)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.07128](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07128)

**Authors**: Keith Rush, Zachary Charles, Zachary Garrett

**Published**: 2024-03-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

We present FAX, a JAX-based library designed to support large-scale
distributed and federated computations in both data center and cross-device
applications. FAX leverages JAX's sharding mechanisms to enable native
targeting of TPUs and state-of-the-art JAX runtimes, including Pathways. FAX
embeds building blocks for federated computations as primitives in JAX. This
enables three key benefits. First, FAX computations can be translated to XLA
HLO. Second, FAX provides a full implementation of federated automatic
differentiation, greatly simplifying the expression of federated computations.
Last, FAX computations can be interpreted out to existing production
cross-device federated compute systems. We show that FAX provides an easily
programmable, performant, and scalable framework for federated computations in
the data center. FAX is available at
https://github.com/google-research/google-research/tree/master/fax .

---

## 8. [Learning Generalizable Feature Fields for Mobile Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.07563)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.07563](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07563)

**Authors**: Ri-Zhao Qiu, Yafei Hu, Ge Yang, Yuchen Song, Yang Fu, Jianglong Ye, Jiteng Mu, Ruihan Yang, Nikolay Atanasov, Sebastian Scherer, Xiaolong Wang

**Published**: 2024-03-12 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

An open problem in mobile manipulation is how to represent objects and scenes
in a unified manner, so that robots can use it both for navigating in the
environment and manipulating objects. The latter requires capturing intricate
geometry while understanding fine-grained semantics, whereas the former
involves capturing the complexity inherit to an expansive physical scale. In
this work, we present GeFF (Generalizable Feature Fields), a scene-level
generalizable neural feature field that acts as a unified representation for
both navigation and manipulation that performs in real-time. To do so, we treat
generative novel view synthesis as a pre-training task, and then align the
resulting rich scene priors with natural language via CLIP feature
distillation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach by deploying
GeFF on a quadrupedal robot equipped with a manipulator. We evaluate GeFF's
ability to generalize to open-set objects as well as running time, when
performing open-vocabulary mobile manipulation in dynamic scenes.

---
