# Daily Papers - 2024-03-25

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-03-25)

Total papers: 12

---

## 1. [Can large language models explore in-context?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.15371)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.15371](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15371)

**Authors**: Akshay Krishnamurthy, Keegan Harris, Dylan J. Foster, Cyril Zhang, Aleksandrs Slivkins

**Published**: 2024-03-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

### Abstract

We investigate the extent to which contemporary Large Language Models (LLMs)
can engage in exploration, a core capability in reinforcement learning and
decision making. We focus on native performance of existing LLMs, without
training interventions. We deploy LLMs as agents in simple multi-armed bandit
environments, specifying the environment description and interaction history
entirely in-context, i.e., within the LLM prompt. We experiment with GPT-3.5,
GPT-4, and Llama2, using a variety of prompt designs, and find that the models
do not robustly engage in exploration without substantial interventions: i)
Across all of our experiments, only one configuration resulted in satisfactory
exploratory behavior: GPT-4 with chain-of-thought reasoning and an externally
summarized interaction history, presented as sufficient statistics; ii) All
other configurations did not result in robust exploratory behavior, including
those with chain-of-thought reasoning but unsummarized history. Although these
findings can be interpreted positively, they suggest that external
summarization -- which may not be possible in more complex settings -- is
important for obtaining desirable behavior from LLM agents. We conclude that
non-trivial algorithmic interventions, such as fine-tuning or dataset curation,
may be required to empower LLM-based decision making agents in complex
settings.

---

## 2. [InternVideo2: Scaling Video Foundation Models for Multimodal Video
  Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.15377)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.15377](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15377)

**Authors**: Yi Wang, Kunchang Li, Xinhao Li, Jiashuo Yu, Yinan He, Guo Chen, Baoqi Pei, Rongkun Zheng, Jilan Xu, Zun Wang, Yansong Shi, Tianxiang Jiang, Songze Li, Hongjie Zhang, Yifei Huang, Yu Qiao, Yali Wang, Limin Wang

**Published**: 2024-03-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opengvlab/internvideo2)

### Abstract

We introduce InternVideo2, a new video foundation model (ViFM) that achieves
the state-of-the-art performance in action recognition, video-text tasks, and
video-centric dialogue. Our approach employs a progressive training paradigm
that unifies the different self- or weakly-supervised learning frameworks of
masked video token reconstruction, cross-modal contrastive learning, and next
token prediction. Different training stages would guide our model to capture
different levels of structure and semantic information through different
pretext tasks. At the data level, we prioritize the spatiotemporal consistency
by semantically segmenting videos and generating video-audio-speech captions.
This improves the alignment between video and text. We scale both data and
model size for our InternVideo2. Through extensive experiments, we validate our
designs and demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance on over 60 video and
audio tasks. Notably, our model outperforms others on various video-related
captioning, dialogue, and long video understanding benchmarks, highlighting its
ability to reason and comprehend long temporal contexts. Code and models are
available at https://github.com/OpenGVLab/InternVideo2/.

---

## 3. [LLM2LLM: Boosting LLMs with Novel Iterative Data Enhancement](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.15042)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.15042](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15042)

**Authors**: Nicholas Lee, Thanakul Wattanawong, Sehoon Kim, Karttikeya Mangalam, Sheng Shen, Gopala Anumanchipali, Michael W. Mahoney, Kurt Keutzer, Amir Gholami

**Published**: 2024-03-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/squeezeailab/llm2llm)

### Abstract

Pretrained large language models (LLMs) are currently state-of-the-art for
solving the vast majority of natural language processing tasks. While many
real-world applications still require fine-tuning to reach satisfactory levels
of performance, many of them are in the low-data regime, making fine-tuning
challenging. To address this, we propose LLM2LLM, a targeted and iterative data
augmentation strategy that uses a teacher LLM to enhance a small seed dataset
by augmenting additional data that can be used for fine-tuning on a specific
task. LLM2LLM (1) fine-tunes a baseline student LLM on the initial seed data,
(2) evaluates and extracts data points that the model gets wrong, and (3) uses
a teacher LLM to generate synthetic data based on these incorrect data points,
which are then added back into the training data. This approach amplifies the
signal from incorrectly predicted data points by the LLM during training and
reintegrates them into the dataset to focus on more challenging examples for
the LLM. Our results show that LLM2LLM significantly enhances the performance
of LLMs in the low-data regime, outperforming both traditional fine-tuning and
other data augmentation baselines. LLM2LLM reduces the dependence on
labor-intensive data curation and paves the way for more scalable and
performant LLM solutions, allowing us to tackle data-constrained domains and
tasks. We achieve improvements up to 24.2% on the GSM8K dataset, 32.6% on
CaseHOLD, 32.0% on SNIPS, 52.6% on TREC and 39.8% on SST-2 over regular
fine-tuning in the low-data regime using a LLaMA2-7B student model.

---

## 4. [ThemeStation: Generating Theme-Aware 3D Assets from Few Exemplars](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.15383)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.15383](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15383)

**Authors**: Zhenwei Wang, Tengfei Wang, Gerhard Hancke, Ziwei Liu, Rynson W. H. Lau

**Published**: 2024-03-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/3DTopia/ThemeStation)

### Abstract

Real-world applications often require a large gallery of 3D assets that share
a consistent theme. While remarkable advances have been made in general 3D
content creation from text or image, synthesizing customized 3D assets
following the shared theme of input 3D exemplars remains an open and
challenging problem. In this work, we present ThemeStation, a novel approach
for theme-aware 3D-to-3D generation. ThemeStation synthesizes customized 3D
assets based on given few exemplars with two goals: 1) unity for generating 3D
assets that thematically align with the given exemplars and 2) diversity for
generating 3D assets with a high degree of variations. To this end, we design a
two-stage framework that draws a concept image first, followed by a
reference-informed 3D modeling stage. We propose a novel dual score
distillation (DSD) loss to jointly leverage priors from both the input
exemplars and the synthesized concept image. Extensive experiments and user
studies confirm that ThemeStation surpasses prior works in producing diverse
theme-aware 3D models with impressive quality. ThemeStation also enables
various applications such as controllable 3D-to-3D generation.

---

## 5. [VidLA: Video-Language Alignment at Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.14870)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.14870](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14870)

**Authors**: Mamshad Nayeem Rizve, Fan Fei, Jayakrishnan Unnikrishnan, Son Tran, Benjamin Z. Yao, Belinda Zeng, Mubarak Shah, Trishul Chilimbi

**Published**: 2024-03-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

In this paper, we propose VidLA, an approach for video-language alignment at
scale. There are two major limitations of previous video-language alignment
approaches. First, they do not capture both short-range and long-range temporal
dependencies and typically employ complex hierarchical deep network
architectures that are hard to integrate with existing pretrained image-text
foundation models. To effectively address this limitation, we instead keep the
network architecture simple and use a set of data tokens that operate at
different temporal resolutions in a hierarchical manner, accounting for the
temporally hierarchical nature of videos. By employing a simple two-tower
architecture, we are able to initialize our video-language model with
pretrained image-text foundation models, thereby boosting the final
performance. Second, existing video-language alignment works struggle due to
the lack of semantically aligned large-scale training data. To overcome it, we
leverage recent LLMs to curate the largest video-language dataset to date with
better visual grounding. Furthermore, unlike existing video-text datasets which
only contain short clips, our dataset is enriched with video clips of varying
durations to aid our temporally hierarchical data tokens in extracting better
representations at varying temporal scales. Overall, empirical results show
that our proposed approach surpasses state-of-the-art methods on multiple
retrieval benchmarks, especially on longer videos, and performs competitively
on classification benchmarks.

---

## 6. [Champ: Controllable and Consistent Human Image Animation with 3D
  Parametric Guidance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.14781)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.14781](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14781)

**Authors**: Shenhao Zhu, Junming Leo Chen, Zuozhuo Dai, Yinghui Xu, Xun Cao, Yao Yao, Hao Zhu, Siyu Zhu

**Published**: 2024-03-21 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/fudan-generative-vision/champ)

### Abstract

In this study, we introduce a methodology for human image animation by
leveraging a 3D human parametric model within a latent diffusion framework to
enhance shape alignment and motion guidance in curernt human generative
techniques. The methodology utilizes the SMPL(Skinned Multi-Person Linear)
model as the 3D human parametric model to establish a unified representation of
body shape and pose. This facilitates the accurate capture of intricate human
geometry and motion characteristics from source videos. Specifically, we
incorporate rendered depth images, normal maps, and semantic maps obtained from
SMPL sequences, alongside skeleton-based motion guidance, to enrich the
conditions to the latent diffusion model with comprehensive 3D shape and
detailed pose attributes. A multi-layer motion fusion module, integrating
self-attention mechanisms, is employed to fuse the shape and motion latent
representations in the spatial domain. By representing the 3D human parametric
model as the motion guidance, we can perform parametric shape alignment of the
human body between the reference image and the source video motion.
Experimental evaluations conducted on benchmark datasets demonstrate the
methodology's superior ability to generate high-quality human animations that
accurately capture both pose and shape variations. Furthermore, our approach
also exhibits superior generalization capabilities on the proposed wild
dataset. Project page: https://fudan-generative-vision.github.io/champ.

---

## 7. [SiMBA: Simplified Mamba-Based Architecture for Vision and Multivariate
  Time series](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.15360)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.15360](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15360)

**Authors**: Badri N. Patro, Vijay S. Agneeswaran

**Published**: 2024-03-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/badripatro/simba)

### Abstract

Transformers have widely adopted attention networks for sequence mixing and
MLPs for channel mixing, playing a pivotal role in achieving breakthroughs
across domains. However, recent literature highlights issues with attention
networks, including low inductive bias and quadratic complexity concerning
input sequence length. State Space Models (SSMs) like S4 and others (Hippo,
Global Convolutions, liquid S4, LRU, Mega, and Mamba), have emerged to address
the above issues to help handle longer sequence lengths. Mamba, while being the
state-of-the-art SSM, has a stability issue when scaled to large networks for
computer vision datasets. We propose SiMBA, a new architecture that introduces
Einstein FFT (EinFFT) for channel modeling by specific eigenvalue computations
and uses the Mamba block for sequence modeling. Extensive performance studies
across image and time-series benchmarks demonstrate that SiMBA outperforms
existing SSMs, bridging the performance gap with state-of-the-art transformers.
Notably, SiMBA establishes itself as the new state-of-the-art SSM on ImageNet
and transfer learning benchmarks such as Stanford Car and Flower as well as
task learning benchmarks as well as seven time series benchmark datasets. The
project page is available on this website
~https://github.com/badripatro/Simba.

---

## 8. [DragAPart: Learning a Part-Level Motion Prior for Articulated Objects](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.15382)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.15382](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15382)

**Authors**: Ruining Li, Chuanxia Zheng, Christian Rupprecht, Andrea Vedaldi

**Published**: 2024-03-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

We introduce DragAPart, a method that, given an image and a set of drags as
input, can generate a new image of the same object in a new state, compatible
with the action of the drags. Differently from prior works that focused on
repositioning objects, DragAPart predicts part-level interactions, such as
opening and closing a drawer. We study this problem as a proxy for learning a
generalist motion model, not restricted to a specific kinematic structure or
object category. To this end, we start from a pre-trained image generator and
fine-tune it on a new synthetic dataset, Drag-a-Move, which we introduce.
Combined with a new encoding for the drags and dataset randomization, the new
model generalizes well to real images and different categories. Compared to
prior motion-controlled generators, we demonstrate much better part-level
motion understanding.

---

## 9. [FollowIR: Evaluating and Teaching Information Retrieval Models to Follow
  Instructions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.15246)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.15246](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15246)

**Authors**: Orion Weller, Benjamin Chang, Sean MacAvaney, Kyle Lo, Arman Cohan, Benjamin Van Durme, Dawn Lawrie, Luca Soldaini

**Published**: 2024-03-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/orionw/followir)

### Abstract

Modern Large Language Models (LLMs) are capable of following long and complex
instructions that enable a diverse amount of user tasks. However, despite
Information Retrieval (IR) models using LLMs as the backbone of their
architectures, nearly all of them still only take queries as input, with no
instructions. For the handful of recent models that do take instructions, it's
unclear how they use them. We introduce our dataset FollowIR, which contains a
rigorous instruction evaluation benchmark as well as a training set for helping
IR models learn to better follow real-world instructions. FollowIR builds off
the long history of the TREC conferences: as TREC provides human annotators
with instructions (also known as narratives) to determine document relevance,
so should IR models be able to understand and decide relevance based on these
detailed instructions. Our evaluation benchmark starts with three deeply judged
TREC collections and alters the annotator instructions, re-annotating relevant
documents. Through this process, we can measure how well IR models follow
instructions, through a new pairwise evaluation framework. Our results indicate
that existing retrieval models fail to correctly use instructions, using them
for basic keywords and struggling to understand long-form information. However,
we show that it is possible for IR models to learn to follow complex
instructions: our new FollowIR-7B model has significant improvements (over 13%)
after fine-tuning on our training set.

---

## 10. [AllHands: Ask Me Anything on Large-scale Verbatim Feedback via Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.15157)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.15157](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15157)

**Authors**: Chaoyun Zhang, Zicheng Ma, Yuhao Wu, Shilin He, Si Qin, Minghua Ma, Xiaoting Qin, Yu Kang, Yuyi Liang, Xiaoyu Gou, Yajie Xue, Qingwei Lin, Saravan Rajmohan, Dongmei Zhang, Qi Zhang

**Published**: 2024-03-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Verbatim feedback constitutes a valuable repository of user experiences,
opinions, and requirements essential for software development. Effectively and
efficiently extracting valuable insights from such data poses a challenging
task. This paper introduces Allhands , an innovative analytic framework
designed for large-scale feedback analysis through a natural language
interface, leveraging large language models (LLMs). Allhands adheres to a
conventional feedback analytic workflow, initially conducting classification
and topic modeling on the feedback to convert them into a structurally
augmented format, incorporating LLMs to enhance accuracy, robustness,
generalization, and user-friendliness. Subsequently, an LLM agent is employed
to interpret users' diverse questions in natural language on feedback,
translating them into Python code for execution, and delivering comprehensive
multi-modal responses, including text, code, tables, and images.
  We evaluate Allhands across three diverse feedback datasets. The experiments
demonstrate that Allhands achieves superior efficacy at all stages of analysis,
including classification and topic modeling, eventually providing users with an
``ask me anything'' experience with comprehensive, correct and human-readable
response. To the best of our knowledge, Allhands stands as the first
comprehensive feedback analysis framework that supports diverse and customized
requirements for insight extraction through a natural language interface.

---

## 11. [LATTE3D: Large-scale Amortized Text-To-Enhanced3D Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.15385)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.15385](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15385)

**Authors**: Kevin Xie, Jonathan Lorraine, Tianshi Cao, Jun Gao, James Lucas, Antonio Torralba, Sanja Fidler, Xiaohui Zeng

**Published**: 2024-03-22 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Recent text-to-3D generation approaches produce impressive 3D results but
require time-consuming optimization that can take up to an hour per prompt.
Amortized methods like ATT3D optimize multiple prompts simultaneously to
improve efficiency, enabling fast text-to-3D synthesis. However, they cannot
capture high-frequency geometry and texture details and struggle to scale to
large prompt sets, so they generalize poorly. We introduce LATTE3D, addressing
these limitations to achieve fast, high-quality generation on a significantly
larger prompt set. Key to our method is 1) building a scalable architecture and
2) leveraging 3D data during optimization through 3D-aware diffusion priors,
shape regularization, and model initialization to achieve robustness to diverse
and complex training prompts. LATTE3D amortizes both neural field and textured
surface generation to produce highly detailed textured meshes in a single
forward pass. LATTE3D generates 3D objects in 400ms, and can be further
enhanced with fast test-time optimization.

---

## 12. [Compiler generated feedback for Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.14714)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.14714](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14714)

**Authors**: Dejan Grubisic, Chris Cummins, Volker Seeker, Hugh Leather

**Published**: 2024-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

We introduce a novel paradigm in compiler optimization powered by Large
Language Models with compiler feedback to optimize the code size of LLVM
assembly. The model takes unoptimized LLVM IR as input and produces optimized
IR, the best optimization passes, and instruction counts of both unoptimized
and optimized IRs. Then we compile the input with generated optimization passes
and evaluate if the predicted instruction count is correct, generated IR is
compilable, and corresponds to compiled code. We provide this feedback back to
LLM and give it another chance to optimize code. This approach adds an extra
0.53% improvement over -Oz to the original model. Even though, adding more
information with feedback seems intuitive, simple sampling techniques achieve
much higher performance given 10 or more samples.

---
