# Daily Papers - 2024-03-12

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-03-12)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [Stealing Part of a Production Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.06634)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.06634](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06634)

**Authors**: Nicholas Carlini, Daniel Paleka, Krishnamurthy Dj Dvijotham, Thomas Steinke, Jonathan Hayase, A. Feder Cooper, Katherine Lee, Matthew Jagielski, Milad Nasr, Arthur Conmy, Eric Wallace, David Rolnick, Florian Tramèr

**Published**: 2024-03-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 91

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dpaleka/stealing-part-lm-supplementary)

### Abstract

We introduce the first model-stealing attack that extracts precise,
nontrivial information from black-box production language models like OpenAI's
ChatGPT or Google's PaLM-2. Specifically, our attack recovers the embedding
projection layer (up to symmetries) of a transformer model, given typical API
access. For under \20 USD, our attack extracts the entire projection matrix of
OpenAI's Ada and Babbage language models. We thereby confirm, for the first
time, that these black-box models have a hidden dimension of 1024 and 2048,
respectively. We also recover the exact hidden dimension size of the
gpt-3.5-turbo model, and estimate it would cost under 2,000 in queries to
recover the entire projection matrix. We conclude with potential defenses and
mitigations, and discuss the implications of possible future work that could
extend our attack.

---

## 2. [Adding NVMe SSDs to Enable and Accelerate 100B Model Fine-tuning on a
  Single GPU](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.06504)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.06504](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06504)

**Authors**: Changyue Liao, Mo Sun, Zihan Yang, Kaiqi Chen, Binhang Yuan, Fei Wu, Zeke Wang

**Published**: 2024-03-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 56

### Abstract

Recent advances in large language models have brought immense value to the
world, with their superior capabilities stemming from the massive number of
parameters they utilize. However, even the GPUs with the highest memory
capacities, currently peaking at 80GB, are far from sufficient to accommodate
these vast parameters and their associated optimizer states when conducting
stochastic gradient descent-based optimization. One approach to hosting such
huge models is to aggregate device memory from many GPUs. However, this
approach introduces prohibitive costs for most academic researchers, who always
have a limited budget for many high-end GPU servers. In this paper, we focus on
huge model fine-tuning on a single, even low-end, GPU in a commodity server,
which is accessible to most AI researchers. In such a scenario, the
state-of-the-art work ZeRO-Infinity suffers from two severe issues when running
in a commodity server: 1) low GPU utilization due to inefficient swapping, and
2) limited trainable model size due to CPU memory capacity. The underlying
reason is that ZeRO-Infinity is optimized for running on high-end GPU servers.
To this end, we present Fuyou, a low-cost training framework that enables
efficient 100B huge model fine-tuning on a low-end server with a low-end GPU
and limited CPU memory capacity. The key idea is to add the SSD-CPU
communication as an optimization dimension and thus carefully co-optimize
computation and data swapping from a systematic approach to maximize GPU
utilization. The experimental results show that 1) Fuyou is able to fine-tune
175B GPT-3 on a consumer GPU RTX 4090 with high GPU utilization, while
ZeRO-Infinity fails to fine-tune; and 2) when training a small GPT-3 13B model,
Fuyou achieves 156 TFLOPS on an RTX 4090 GPU while ZeRO-Infinity only achieves
45 TFLOPS.

---

## 3. [V3D: Video Diffusion Models are Effective 3D Generators](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.06738)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.06738](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06738)

**Authors**: Zilong Chen, Yikai Wang, Feng Wang, Zhengyi Wang, Huaping Liu

**Published**: 2024-03-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/heheyas/v3d)

### Abstract

Automatic 3D generation has recently attracted widespread attention. Recent
methods have greatly accelerated the generation speed, but usually produce
less-detailed objects due to limited model capacity or 3D data. Motivated by
recent advancements in video diffusion models, we introduce V3D, which
leverages the world simulation capacity of pre-trained video diffusion models
to facilitate 3D generation. To fully unleash the potential of video diffusion
to perceive the 3D world, we further introduce geometrical consistency prior
and extend the video diffusion model to a multi-view consistent 3D generator.
Benefiting from this, the state-of-the-art video diffusion model could be
fine-tuned to generate 360degree orbit frames surrounding an object given a
single image. With our tailored reconstruction pipelines, we can generate
high-quality meshes or 3D Gaussians within 3 minutes. Furthermore, our method
can be extended to scene-level novel view synthesis, achieving precise control
over the camera path with sparse input views. Extensive experiments demonstrate
the superior performance of the proposed approach, especially in terms of
generation quality and multi-view consistency. Our code is available at
https://github.com/heheyas/V3D

---

## 4. [VideoMamba: State Space Model for Efficient Video Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.06977)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.06977](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06977)

**Authors**: Kunchang Li, Xinhao Li, Yi Wang, Yinan He, Yali Wang, Limin Wang, Yu Qiao

**Published**: 2024-03-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opengvlab/videomamba)

### Abstract

Addressing the dual challenges of local redundancy and global dependencies in
video understanding, this work innovatively adapts the Mamba to the video
domain. The proposed VideoMamba overcomes the limitations of existing 3D
convolution neural networks and video transformers. Its linear-complexity
operator enables efficient long-term modeling, which is crucial for
high-resolution long video understanding. Extensive evaluations reveal
VideoMamba's four core abilities: (1) Scalability in the visual domain without
extensive dataset pretraining, thanks to a novel self-distillation technique;
(2) Sensitivity for recognizing short-term actions even with fine-grained
motion differences; (3) Superiority in long-term video understanding,
showcasing significant advancements over traditional feature-based models; and
(4) Compatibility with other modalities, demonstrating robustness in
multi-modal contexts. Through these distinct advantages, VideoMamba sets a new
benchmark for video understanding, offering a scalable and efficient solution
for comprehensive video understanding. All the code and models are available at
https://github.com/OpenGVLab/VideoMamba.

---

## 5. [An Image is Worth 1/2 Tokens After Layer 2: Plug-and-Play Inference
  Acceleration for Large Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.06764)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.06764](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06764)

**Authors**: Liang Chen, Haozhe Zhao, Tianyu Liu, Shuai Bai, Junyang Lin, Chang Zhou, Baobao Chang

**Published**: 2024-03-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 27

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/pkunlp-icler/fastv)

### Abstract

In this study, we identify the inefficient attention phenomena in Large
Vision-Language Models (LVLMs), notably within prominent models like LLaVA-1.5,
QwenVL-Chat and Video-LLaVA. We find out that the attention computation over
visual tokens is of extreme inefficiency in the deep layers of popular LVLMs,
suggesting a need for a sparser approach compared to textual data handling. To
this end, we introduce FastV, a versatile plug-and-play method designed to
optimize computational efficiency by learning adaptive attention patterns in
early layers and pruning visual tokens in subsequent ones. Our evaluations
demonstrate FastV's ability to dramatically reduce computational costs (e.g., a
45 reduction in FLOPs for LLaVA-1.5-13B) without sacrificing performance in a
wide range of image and video understanding tasks. The computational efficiency
and performance trade-off of FastV are highly customizable and
pareto-efficient. It can compress the FLOPs of a 13B-parameter model to achieve
a lower budget than that of a 7B-parameter model, while still maintaining
superior performance. We believe FastV has practical values for deployment of
LVLMs in edge devices and commercial models. Code is released at
https://github.com/pkunlp-icler/FastV.

---

## 6. [Algorithmic progress in language models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.05812)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.05812](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05812)

**Authors**: Anson Ho, Tamay Besiroglu, Ege Erdil, David Owen, Robi Rahman, Zifan Carl Guo, David Atkinson, Neil Thompson, Jaime Sevilla

**Published**: 2024-03-09 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/epoch-research/lm-algorithmic-progress)

### Abstract

We investigate the rate at which algorithms for pre-training language models
have improved since the advent of deep learning. Using a dataset of over 200
language model evaluations on Wikitext and Penn Treebank spanning 2012-2023, we
find that the compute required to reach a set performance threshold has halved
approximately every 8 months, with a 95% confidence interval of around 5 to 14
months, substantially faster than hardware gains per Moore's Law. We estimate
augmented scaling laws, which enable us to quantify algorithmic progress and
determine the relative contributions of scaling models versus innovations in
training algorithms. Despite the rapid pace of algorithmic progress and the
development of new architectures such as the transformer, our analysis reveals
that the increase in compute made an even larger contribution to overall
performance improvements over this time period. Though limited by noisy
benchmark data, our analysis quantifies the rapid progress in language
modeling, shedding light on the relative contributions from compute and
algorithms.

---

## 7. [VidProM: A Million-scale Real Prompt-Gallery Dataset for Text-to-Video
  Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.06098)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.06098](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06098)

**Authors**: Wenhao Wang, Yi Yang

**Published**: 2024-03-10 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wangwenhao0716/vidprom)

### Abstract

The arrival of Sora marks a new era for text-to-video diffusion models,
bringing significant advancements in video generation and potential
applications. However, Sora, as well as other text-to-video diffusion models,
highly relies on the prompts, and there is no publicly available dataset
featuring a study of text-to-video prompts. In this paper, we introduce
VidProM, the first large-scale dataset comprising 1.67 million unique
text-to-video prompts from real users. Additionally, the dataset includes 6.69
million videos generated by four state-of-the-art diffusion models and some
related data. We initially demonstrate the curation of this large-scale
dataset, which is a time-consuming and costly process. Subsequently, we show
how the proposed VidProM differs from DiffusionDB, a large-scale prompt-gallery
dataset for image generation. Based on the analysis of these prompts, we
identify the necessity for a new prompt dataset specifically designed for
text-to-video generation and gain insights into the preferences of real users
when creating videos. Our large-scale and diverse dataset also inspires many
exciting new research areas. For instance, to develop better, more efficient,
and safer text-to-video diffusion models, we suggest exploring text-to-video
prompt engineering, efficient video generation, and video copy detection for
diffusion models. We make the collected dataset VidProM publicly available at
GitHub and Hugging Face under the CC-BY- NC 4.0 License.

---

## 8. [Multistep Consistency Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.06807)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.06807](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06807)

**Authors**: Jonathan Heek, Emiel Hoogeboom, Tim Salimans

**Published**: 2024-03-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Diffusion models are relatively easy to train but require many steps to
generate samples. Consistency models are far more difficult to train, but
generate samples in a single step.
  In this paper we propose Multistep Consistency Models: A unification between
Consistency Models (Song et al., 2023) and TRACT (Berthelot et al., 2023) that
can interpolate between a consistency model and a diffusion model: a trade-off
between sampling speed and sampling quality. Specifically, a 1-step consistency
model is a conventional consistency model whereas we show that a infty-step
consistency model is a diffusion model.
  Multistep Consistency Models work really well in practice. By increasing the
sample budget from a single step to 2-8 steps, we can train models more easily
that generate higher quality samples, while retaining much of the sampling
speed benefits. Notable results are 1.4 FID on Imagenet 64 in 8 step and 2.1
FID on Imagenet128 in 8 steps with consistency distillation. We also show that
our method scales to a text-to-image diffusion model, generating samples that
are very close to the quality of the original model.

---

## 9. [FaceChain-SuDe: Building Derived Class to Inherit Category Attributes
  for One-shot Subject-Driven Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.06775)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.06775](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06775)

**Authors**: Pengchong Qiao, Lei Shang, Chang Liu, Baigui Sun, Xiangyang Ji, Jie Chen

**Published**: 2024-03-11 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-12 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/modelscope/facechain)

### Abstract

Subject-driven generation has garnered significant interest recently due to
its ability to personalize text-to-image generation. Typical works focus on
learning the new subject's private attributes. However, an important fact has
not been taken seriously that a subject is not an isolated new concept but
should be a specialization of a certain category in the pre-trained model. This
results in the subject failing to comprehensively inherit the attributes in its
category, causing poor attribute-related generations. In this paper, motivated
by object-oriented programming, we model the subject as a derived class whose
base class is its semantic category. This modeling enables the subject to
inherit public attributes from its category while learning its private
attributes from the user-provided example. Specifically, we propose a
plug-and-play method, Subject-Derived regularization (SuDe). It constructs the
base-derived class modeling by constraining the subject-driven generated images
to semantically belong to the subject's category. Extensive experiments under
three baselines and two backbones on various subjects show that our SuDe
enables imaginative attribute-related generations while maintaining subject
fidelity. Codes will be open sourced soon at FaceChain
(https://github.com/modelscope/facechain).

---
