# Daily Papers - 2024-03-05

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-03-05)

Total papers: 14

---

## 1. [Design2Code: How Far Are We From Automating Front-End Engineering?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.03163)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.03163](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03163)

**Authors**: Chenglei Si, Yanzhe Zhang, Zhengyuan Yang, Ruibo Liu, Diyi Yang

**Published**: 2024-03-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 98

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NoviScl/Design2Code)

### Abstract

Generative AI has made rapid advancements in recent years, achieving
unprecedented capabilities in multimodal understanding and code generation.
This can enable a new paradigm of front-end development, in which multimodal
LLMs might directly convert visual designs into code implementations. In this
work, we formalize this as a Design2Code task and conduct comprehensive
benchmarking. Specifically, we manually curate a benchmark of 484 diverse
real-world webpages as test cases and develop a set of automatic evaluation
metrics to assess how well current multimodal LLMs can generate the code
implementations that directly render into the given reference webpages, given
the screenshots as input. We also complement automatic metrics with
comprehensive human evaluations. We develop a suite of multimodal prompting
methods and show their effectiveness on GPT-4V and Gemini Pro Vision. We
further finetune an open-source Design2Code-18B model that successfully matches
the performance of Gemini Pro Vision. Both human evaluation and automatic
metrics show that GPT-4V performs the best on this task compared to other
models. Moreover, annotators think GPT-4V generated webpages can replace the
original reference webpages in 49% of cases in terms of visual appearance and
content; and perhaps surprisingly, in 64% of cases GPT-4V generated webpages
are considered better than the original reference webpages. Our fine-grained
break-down metrics indicate that open-source models mostly lag in recalling
visual elements from the input webpages and in generating correct layout
designs, while aspects like text content and coloring can be drastically
improved with proper finetuning.

---

## 2. [Scaling Rectified Flow Transformers for High-Resolution Image Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.03206)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.03206](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03206)

**Authors**: Patrick Esser, Sumith Kulal, Andreas Blattmann, Rahim Entezari, Jonas Müller, Harry Saini, Yam Levi, Dominik Lorenz, Axel Sauer, Frederic Boesel, Dustin Podell, Tim Dockhorn, Zion English, Kyle Lacey, Alex Goodwin, Yannik Marek, Robin Rombach

**Published**: 2024-03-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 71

### Abstract

Diffusion models create data from noise by inverting the forward paths of
data towards noise and have emerged as a powerful generative modeling technique
for high-dimensional, perceptual data such as images and videos. Rectified flow
is a recent generative model formulation that connects data and noise in a
straight line. Despite its better theoretical properties and conceptual
simplicity, it is not yet decisively established as standard practice. In this
work, we improve existing noise sampling techniques for training rectified flow
models by biasing them towards perceptually relevant scales. Through a
large-scale study, we demonstrate the superior performance of this approach
compared to established diffusion formulations for high-resolution
text-to-image synthesis. Additionally, we present a novel transformer-based
architecture for text-to-image generation that uses separate weights for the
two modalities and enables a bidirectional flow of information between image
and text tokens, improving text comprehension, typography, and human preference
ratings. We demonstrate that this architecture follows predictable scaling
trends and correlates lower validation loss to improved text-to-image synthesis
as measured by various metrics and human evaluations. Our largest models
outperform state-of-the-art models, and we will make our experimental data,
code, and model weights publicly available.

---

## 3. [OOTDiffusion: Outfitting Fusion based Latent Diffusion for Controllable
  Virtual Try-on](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.01779)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.01779](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01779)

**Authors**: Yuhao Xu, Tao Gu, Weifeng Chen, Chengcai Chen

**Published**: 2024-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/levihsu/ootdiffusion)

### Abstract

Image-based virtual try-on (VTON), which aims to generate an outfitted image
of a target human wearing an in-shop garment, is a challenging image-synthesis
task calling for not only high fidelity of the outfitted human but also full
preservation of garment details. To tackle this issue, we propose Outfitting
over Try-on Diffusion (OOTDiffusion), leveraging the power of pretrained latent
diffusion models and designing a novel network architecture for realistic and
controllable virtual try-on. Without an explicit warping process, we propose an
outfitting UNet to learn the garment detail features, and merge them with the
target human body via our proposed outfitting fusion in the denoising process
of diffusion models. In order to further enhance the controllability of our
outfitting UNet, we introduce outfitting dropout to the training process, which
enables us to adjust the strength of garment features through classifier-free
guidance. Our comprehensive experiments on the VITON-HD and Dress Code datasets
demonstrate that OOTDiffusion efficiently generates high-quality outfitted
images for arbitrary human and garment images, which outperforms other VTON
methods in both fidelity and controllability, indicating an impressive
breakthrough in virtual try-on. Our source code is available at
https://github.com/levihsu/OOTDiffusion.

---

## 4. [MovieLLM: Enhancing Long Video Understanding with AI-Generated Movies](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.01422)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.01422](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01422)

**Authors**: Zhende Song, Chenchen Wang, Jiamu Sheng, Chi Zhang, Gang Yu, Jiayuan Fan, Tao Chen

**Published**: 2024-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Deaddawn/DreamFrame-code) | [Project Page](https://deaddawn.github.io/DreamFrame)

### Abstract

The development of multimodal models has marked a significant step forward in
how machines understand videos. These models have shown promise in analyzing
short video clips. However, when it comes to longer formats like movies, they
often fall short. The main hurdles are the lack of high-quality, diverse video
data and the intensive work required to collect or annotate such data. In the
face of these challenges, we propose MovieLLM, a novel framework designed to
create synthetic, high-quality data for long videos. This framework leverages
the power of GPT-4 and text-to-image models to generate detailed scripts and
corresponding visuals. Our approach stands out for its flexibility and
scalability, making it a superior alternative to traditional data collection
methods. Our extensive experiments validate that the data produced by MovieLLM
significantly improves the performance of multimodal models in understanding
complex video narratives, overcoming the limitations of existing datasets
regarding scarcity and bias.

---

## 5. [AtomoVideo: High Fidelity Image-to-Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.01800)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.01800](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01800)

**Authors**: Litong Gong, Yiran Zhu, Weijie Li, Xiaoyang Kang, Biao Wang, Tiezheng Ge, Bo Zheng

**Published**: 2024-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Recently, video generation has achieved significant rapid development based
on superior text-to-image generation techniques. In this work, we propose a
high fidelity framework for image-to-video generation, named AtomoVideo. Based
on multi-granularity image injection, we achieve higher fidelity of the
generated video to the given image. In addition, thanks to high quality
datasets and training strategies, we achieve greater motion intensity while
maintaining superior temporal consistency and stability. Our architecture
extends flexibly to the video frame prediction task, enabling long sequence
prediction through iterative generation. Furthermore, due to the design of
adapter training, our approach can be well combined with existing personalised
models and controllable modules. By quantitatively and qualitatively
evaluation, AtomoVideo achieves superior results compared to popular methods,
more examples can be found on our project website: https://atomo-
video.github.io/.

---

## 6. [DenseMamba: State Space Models with Dense Hidden Connection for
  Efficient Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.00818)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.00818](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00818)

**Organization**: HUAWEI Noah's Ark Lab

**Authors**: Wei He, Kai Han, Yehui Tang, Chengcheng Wang, Yujie Yang, Tianyu Guo, Yunhe Wang

**Published**: 2024-02-26 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/wailordhe/densessm)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) face a daunting challenge due to the excessive
computational and memory requirements of the commonly used Transformer
architecture. While state space model (SSM) is a new type of foundational
network architecture offering lower computational complexity, their performance
has yet to fully rival that of Transformers. This paper introduces DenseSSM, a
novel approach to enhance the flow of hidden information between layers in
SSMs. By selectively integrating shallowlayer hidden states into deeper layers,
DenseSSM retains fine-grained information crucial for the final output. Dense
connections enhanced DenseSSM still maintains the training parallelizability
and inference efficiency. The proposed method can be widely applicable to
various SSM types like RetNet and Mamba. With similar model size, DenseSSM
achieves significant improvements, exemplified by DenseRetNet outperforming the
original RetNet with up to 5% accuracy improvement on public benchmarks.

---

## 7. [TripoSR: Fast 3D Object Reconstruction from a Single Image](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.02151)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.02151](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02151)

**Authors**: Dmitry Tochilkin, David Pankratz, Zexiang Liu, Zixuan Huang, Adam Letts, Yangguang Li, Ding Liang, Christian Laforte, Varun Jampani, Yan-Pei Cao

**Published**: 2024-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vast-ai-research/triposr)

### Abstract

This technical report introduces TripoSR, a 3D reconstruction model
leveraging transformer architecture for fast feed-forward 3D generation,
producing 3D mesh from a single image in under 0.5 seconds. Building upon the
LRM network architecture, TripoSR integrates substantial improvements in data
processing, model design, and training techniques. Evaluations on public
datasets show that TripoSR exhibits superior performance, both quantitatively
and qualitatively, compared to other open-source alternatives. Released under
the MIT license, TripoSR is intended to empower researchers, developers, and
creatives with the latest advancements in 3D generative AI.

---

## 8. [InfiMM-HD: A Leap Forward in High-Resolution Multimodal Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.01487)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.01487](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01487)

**Authors**: Haogeng Liu, Quanzeng You, Xiaotian Han, Yiqi Wang, Bohan Zhai, Yongfei Liu, Yunzhe Tao, Huaibo Huang, Ran He, Hongxia Yang

**Published**: 2024-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/InfiMM/infimm-hd)

### Abstract

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have experienced significant
advancements recently. Nevertheless, challenges persist in the accurate
recognition and comprehension of intricate details within high-resolution
images. Despite being indispensable for the development of robust MLLMs, this
area remains underinvestigated. To tackle this challenge, our work introduces
InfiMM-HD, a novel architecture specifically designed for processing images of
different resolutions with low computational overhead. This innovation
facilitates the enlargement of MLLMs to higher-resolution capabilities.
InfiMM-HD incorporates a cross-attention module and visual windows to reduce
computation costs. By integrating this architectural design with a four-stage
training pipeline, our model attains improved visual perception efficiently and
cost-effectively. Empirical study underscores the robustness and effectiveness
of InfiMM-HD, opening new avenues for exploration in related areas. Codes and
models can be found at https://huggingface.co/Infi-MM/infimm-hd

---

## 9. [ResAdapter: Domain Consistent Resolution Adapter for Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.02084)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.02084](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02084)

**Authors**: Jiaxiang Cheng, Pan Xie, Xin Xia, Jiashi Li, Jie Wu, Yuxi Ren, Huixia Li, Xuefeng Xiao, Min Zheng, Lean Fu

**Published**: 2024-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bytedance/res-adapter)

### Abstract

Recent advancement in text-to-image models (e.g., Stable Diffusion) and
corresponding personalized technologies (e.g., DreamBooth and LoRA) enables
individuals to generate high-quality and imaginative images. However, they
often suffer from limitations when generating images with resolutions outside
of their trained domain. To overcome this limitation, we present the Resolution
Adapter (ResAdapter), a domain-consistent adapter designed for diffusion models
to generate images with unrestricted resolutions and aspect ratios. Unlike
other multi-resolution generation methods that process images of static
resolution with complex post-process operations, ResAdapter directly generates
images with the dynamical resolution. Especially, after learning a deep
understanding of pure resolution priors, ResAdapter trained on the general
dataset, generates resolution-free images with personalized diffusion models
while preserving their original style domain. Comprehensive experiments
demonstrate that ResAdapter with only 0.5M can process images with flexible
resolutions for arbitrary diffusion models. More extended experiments
demonstrate that ResAdapter is compatible with other modules (e.g., ControlNet,
IP-Adapter and LCM-LoRA) for image generation across a broad range of
resolutions, and can be integrated into other multi-resolution model (e.g.,
ElasticDiffusion) for efficiently generating higher-resolution images. Project
link is https://res-adapter.github.io

---

## 10. [Tuning-Free Noise Rectification for High Fidelity Image-to-Video
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.02827)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.02827](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02827)

**Authors**: Weijie Li, Litong Gong, Yiran Zhu, Fanda Fan, Biao Wang, Tiezheng Ge, Bo Zheng

**Published**: 2024-03-05 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Image-to-video (I2V) generation tasks always suffer from keeping high
fidelity in the open domains. Traditional image animation techniques primarily
focus on specific domains such as faces or human poses, making them difficult
to generalize to open domains. Several recent I2V frameworks based on diffusion
models can generate dynamic content for open domain images but fail to maintain
fidelity. We found that two main factors of low fidelity are the loss of image
details and the noise prediction biases during the denoising process. To this
end, we propose an effective method that can be applied to mainstream video
diffusion models. This method achieves high fidelity based on supplementing
more precise image information and noise rectification. Specifically, given a
specified image, our method first adds noise to the input image latent to keep
more details, then denoises the noisy latent with proper rectification to
alleviate the noise prediction biases. Our method is tuning-free and
plug-and-play. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our
approach in improving the fidelity of generated videos. For more image-to-video
generated results, please refer to the project website:
https://noise-rectification.github.io.

---

## 11. [RT-H: Action Hierarchies Using Language](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.01823)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.01823](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01823)

**Authors**: Suneel Belkhale, Tianli Ding, Ted Xiao, Pierre Sermanet, Quon Vuong, Jonathan Tompson, Yevgen Chebotar, Debidatta Dwibedi, Dorsa Sadigh

**Published**: 2024-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Language provides a way to break down complex concepts into digestible
pieces. Recent works in robot imitation learning use language-conditioned
policies that predict actions given visual observations and the high-level task
specified in language. These methods leverage the structure of natural language
to share data between semantically similar tasks (e.g., "pick coke can" and
"pick an apple") in multi-task datasets. However, as tasks become more
semantically diverse (e.g., "pick coke can" and "pour cup"), sharing data
between tasks becomes harder, so learning to map high-level tasks to actions
requires much more demonstration data. To bridge tasks and actions, our insight
is to teach the robot the language of actions, describing low-level motions
with more fine-grained phrases like "move arm forward". Predicting these
language motions as an intermediate step between tasks and actions forces the
policy to learn the shared structure of low-level motions across seemingly
disparate tasks. Furthermore, a policy that is conditioned on language motions
can easily be corrected during execution through human-specified language
motions. This enables a new paradigm for flexible policies that can learn from
human intervention in language. Our method RT-H builds an action hierarchy
using language motions: it first learns to predict language motions, and
conditioned on this and the high-level task, it predicts actions, using visual
context at all stages. We show that RT-H leverages this language-action
hierarchy to learn policies that are more robust and flexible by effectively
tapping into multi-task datasets. We show that these policies not only allow
for responding to language interventions, but can also learn from such
interventions and outperform methods that learn from teleoperated
interventions. Our website and videos are found at
https://rt-hierarchy.github.io.

---

## 12. [ViewDiff: 3D-Consistent Image Generation with Text-to-Image Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.01807)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.01807](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01807)

**Authors**: Lukas Höllein, Aljaž Božič, Norman Müller, David Novotny, Hung-Yu Tseng, Christian Richardt, Michael Zollhöfer, Matthias Nießner

**Published**: 2024-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/viewdiff)

### Abstract

3D asset generation is getting massive amounts of attention, inspired by the
recent success of text-guided 2D content creation. Existing text-to-3D methods
use pretrained text-to-image diffusion models in an optimization problem or
fine-tune them on synthetic data, which often results in non-photorealistic 3D
objects without backgrounds. In this paper, we present a method that leverages
pretrained text-to-image models as a prior, and learn to generate multi-view
images in a single denoising process from real-world data. Concretely, we
propose to integrate 3D volume-rendering and cross-frame-attention layers into
each block of the existing U-Net network of the text-to-image model. Moreover,
we design an autoregressive generation that renders more 3D-consistent images
at any viewpoint. We train our model on real-world datasets of objects and
showcase its capabilities to generate instances with a variety of high-quality
shapes and textures in authentic surroundings. Compared to the existing
methods, the results generated by our method are consistent, and have favorable
visual quality (-30% FID, -37% KID).

---

## 13. [Twisting Lids Off with Two Hands](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.02338)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.02338](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02338)

**Authors**: Toru Lin, Zhao-Heng Yin, Haozhi Qi, Pieter Abbeel, Jitendra Malik

**Published**: 2024-03-04 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Manipulating objects with two multi-fingered hands has been a long-standing
challenge in robotics, attributed to the contact-rich nature of many
manipulation tasks and the complexity inherent in coordinating a
high-dimensional bimanual system. In this work, we consider the problem of
twisting lids of various bottle-like objects with two hands, and demonstrate
that policies trained in simulation using deep reinforcement learning can be
effectively transferred to the real world. With novel engineering insights into
physical modeling, real-time perception, and reward design, the policy
demonstrates generalization capabilities across a diverse set of unseen
objects, showcasing dynamic and dexterous behaviors. Our findings serve as
compelling evidence that deep reinforcement learning combined with sim-to-real
transfer remains a promising approach for addressing manipulation problems of
unprecedented complexity.

---

## 14. [3DGStream: On-the-Fly Training of 3D Gaussians for Efficient Streaming
  of Photo-Realistic Free-Viewpoint Videos](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.01444)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.01444](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01444)

**Authors**: Jiakai Sun, Han Jiao, Guangyuan Li, Zhanjie Zhang, Lei Zhao, Wei Xing

**Published**: 2024-03-03 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-05 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SJoJoK/3DGStream) | [Project Page](https://sjojok.top/3dgstream/)

### Abstract

Constructing photo-realistic Free-Viewpoint Videos (FVVs) of dynamic scenes
from multi-view videos remains a challenging endeavor. Despite the remarkable
advancements achieved by current neural rendering techniques, these methods
generally require complete video sequences for offline training and are not
capable of real-time rendering. To address these constraints, we introduce
3DGStream, a method designed for efficient FVV streaming of real-world dynamic
scenes. Our method achieves fast on-the-fly per-frame reconstruction within 12
seconds and real-time rendering at 200 FPS. Specifically, we utilize 3D
Gaussians (3DGs) to represent the scene. Instead of the na\"ive approach of
directly optimizing 3DGs per-frame, we employ a compact Neural Transformation
Cache (NTC) to model the translations and rotations of 3DGs, markedly reducing
the training time and storage required for each FVV frame. Furthermore, we
propose an adaptive 3DG addition strategy to handle emerging objects in dynamic
scenes. Experiments demonstrate that 3DGStream achieves competitive performance
in terms of rendering speed, image quality, training time, and model storage
when compared with state-of-the-art methods.

---
