# Daily Papers - 2024-03-19

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2024-03-19)

Total papers: 13

---

## 1. [Fast High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Adversarial Diffusion
  Distillation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.12015)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.12015](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12015)

**Authors**: Axel Sauer, Frederic Boesel, Tim Dockhorn, Andreas Blattmann, Patrick Esser, Robin Rombach

**Published**: 2024-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 70

### Abstract

Diffusion models are the main driver of progress in image and video
synthesis, but suffer from slow inference speed. Distillation methods, like the
recently introduced adversarial diffusion distillation (ADD) aim to shift the
model from many-shot to single-step inference, albeit at the cost of expensive
and difficult optimization due to its reliance on a fixed pretrained DINOv2
discriminator. We introduce Latent Adversarial Diffusion Distillation (LADD), a
novel distillation approach overcoming the limitations of ADD. In contrast to
pixel-based ADD, LADD utilizes generative features from pretrained latent
diffusion models. This approach simplifies training and enhances performance,
enabling high-resolution multi-aspect ratio image synthesis. We apply LADD to
Stable Diffusion 3 (8B) to obtain SD3-Turbo, a fast model that matches the
performance of state-of-the-art text-to-image generators using only four
unguided sampling steps. Moreover, we systematically investigate its scaling
behavior and demonstrate LADD's effectiveness in various applications such as
image editing and inpainting.

---

## 2. [PERL: Parameter Efficient Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.10704)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.10704](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10704)

**Authors**: Hakim Sidahmed, Samrat Phatale, Alex Hutcheson, Zhuonan Lin, Zhang Chen, Zac Yu, Jarvis Jin, Roman Komarytsia, Christiane Ahlheim, Yonghao Zhu, Simral Chaudhary, Bowen Li, Saravanan Ganesh, Bill Byrne, Jessica Hoffmann, Hassan Mansoor, Wei Li, Abhinav Rastogi, Lucas Dixon

**Published**: 2024-03-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 60

### Abstract

Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has proven to be a strong
method to align Pretrained Large Language Models (LLMs) with human preferences.
But training models with RLHF is computationally expensive, and an overall
complex process. In this work, we study RLHF where the underlying models are
trained using the parameter efficient method of Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA)
introduced by Hu et al. [2021]. We investigate the setup of "Parameter
Efficient Reinforcement Learning" (PERL), in which we perform reward model
training and reinforcement learning using LoRA. We compare PERL to conventional
fine-tuning (full-tuning) across various configurations for 7 benchmarks,
including 2 novel datasets, of reward modeling and reinforcement learning. We
find that PERL performs on par with the conventional RLHF setting, while
training faster, and with less memory. This enables the high performance of
RLHF, while reducing the computational burden that limits its adoption as an
alignment technique for Large Language Models. We also release 2 novel thumbs
up/down preference datasets: "Taskmaster Coffee", and "Taskmaster Ticketing" to
promote research around RLHF.

---

## 3. [Larimar: Large Language Models with Episodic Memory Control](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.11901)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.11901](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11901)

**Authors**: Payel Das, Subhajit Chaudhury, Elliot Nelson, Igor Melnyk, Sarath Swaminathan, Sihui Dai, Aurélie Lozano, Georgios Kollias, Vijil Chenthamarakshan, Jiří, Navrátil, Soham Dan, Pin-Yu Chen

**Published**: 2024-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ibm/larimar)

### Abstract

Efficient and accurate updating of knowledge stored in Large Language Models
(LLMs) is one of the most pressing research challenges today. This paper
presents Larimar - a novel, brain-inspired architecture for enhancing LLMs with
a distributed episodic memory. Larimar's memory allows for dynamic, one-shot
updates of knowledge without the need for computationally expensive re-training
or fine-tuning. Experimental results on multiple fact editing benchmarks
demonstrate that Larimar attains accuracy comparable to most competitive
baselines, even in the challenging sequential editing setup, but also excels in
speed - yielding speed-ups of 4-10x depending on the base LLM - as well as
flexibility due to the proposed architecture being simple, LLM-agnostic, and
hence general. We further provide mechanisms for selective fact forgetting and
input context length generalization with Larimar and show their effectiveness.

---

## 4. [SV3D: Novel Multi-view Synthesis and 3D Generation from a Single Image
  using Latent Video Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.12008)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.12008](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12008)

**Authors**: Vikram Voleti, Chun-Han Yao, Mark Boss, Adam Letts, David Pankratz, Dmitry Tochilkin, Christian Laforte, Robin Rombach, Varun Jampani

**Published**: 2024-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 20

### Abstract

We present Stable Video 3D (SV3D) -- a latent video diffusion model for
high-resolution, image-to-multi-view generation of orbital videos around a 3D
object. Recent work on 3D generation propose techniques to adapt 2D generative
models for novel view synthesis (NVS) and 3D optimization. However, these
methods have several disadvantages due to either limited views or inconsistent
NVS, thereby affecting the performance of 3D object generation. In this work,
we propose SV3D that adapts image-to-video diffusion model for novel multi-view
synthesis and 3D generation, thereby leveraging the generalization and
multi-view consistency of the video models, while further adding explicit
camera control for NVS. We also propose improved 3D optimization techniques to
use SV3D and its NVS outputs for image-to-3D generation. Extensive experimental
results on multiple datasets with 2D and 3D metrics as well as user study
demonstrate SV3D's state-of-the-art performance on NVS as well as 3D
reconstruction compared to prior works.

---

## 5. [Infinite-ID: Identity-preserved Personalization via ID-semantics
  Decoupling Paradigm](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.11781)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.11781](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11781)

**Authors**: Yi Wu, Ziqiang Li, Heliang Zheng, Chaoyue Wang, Bin Li

**Published**: 2024-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Drawing on recent advancements in diffusion models for text-to-image
generation, identity-preserved personalization has made significant progress in
accurately capturing specific identities with just a single reference image.
However, existing methods primarily integrate reference images within the text
embedding space, leading to a complex entanglement of image and text
information, which poses challenges for preserving both identity fidelity and
semantic consistency. To tackle this challenge, we propose Infinite-ID, an
ID-semantics decoupling paradigm for identity-preserved personalization.
Specifically, we introduce identity-enhanced training, incorporating an
additional image cross-attention module to capture sufficient ID information
while deactivating the original text cross-attention module of the diffusion
model. This ensures that the image stream faithfully represents the identity
provided by the reference image while mitigating interference from textual
input. Additionally, we introduce a feature interaction mechanism that combines
a mixed attention module with an AdaIN-mean operation to seamlessly merge the
two streams. This mechanism not only enhances the fidelity of identity and
semantic consistency but also enables convenient control over the styles of the
generated images. Extensive experimental results on both raw photo generation
and style image generation demonstrate the superior performance of our proposed
method.

---

## 6. [LightIt: Illumination Modeling and Control for Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.10615)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.10615](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10615)

**Authors**: Julien Philip, Kalyan Sunkavalli, Matthias Nießner, Yannick Hold-Geoffroy

**Published**: 2024-03-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

We introduce LightIt, a method for explicit illumination control for image
generation. Recent generative methods lack lighting control, which is crucial
to numerous artistic aspects of image generation such as setting the overall
mood or cinematic appearance. To overcome these limitations, we propose to
condition the generation on shading and normal maps. We model the lighting with
single bounce shading, which includes cast shadows. We first train a shading
estimation module to generate a dataset of real-world images and shading pairs.
Then, we train a control network using the estimated shading and normals as
input. Our method demonstrates high-quality image generation and lighting
control in numerous scenes. Additionally, we use our generated dataset to train
an identity-preserving relighting model, conditioned on an image and a target
shading. Our method is the first that enables the generation of images with
controllable, consistent lighting and performs on par with specialized
relighting state-of-the-art methods.

---

## 7. [LLaVA-UHD: an LMM Perceiving Any Aspect Ratio and High-Resolution Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.11703)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.11703](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11703)

**Authors**: Yuan Yao, Zonghao Guo, Junbo Cui, Zanlin Ni, Chunjiang Ge, Tat-Seng Chua, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun, Gao Huang

**Published**: 2024-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Visual encoding constitutes the basis of large multimodal models (LMMs) in
understanding the visual world. Conventional LMMs process images in fixed sizes
and limited resolutions, while recent explorations in this direction are
limited in adaptivity, efficiency, and even correctness. In this work, we first
take GPT-4V and LLaVA-1.5 as representative examples and expose systematic
flaws rooted in their visual encoding strategy. To address the challenges, we
present LLaVA-UHD, a large multimodal model that can efficiently perceive
images in any aspect ratio and high resolution. LLaVA-UHD includes three key
components: (1) An image modularization strategy that divides native-resolution
images into smaller variable-sized slices for efficient and extensible
encoding, (2) a compression module that further condenses image tokens from
visual encoders, and (3) a spatial schema to organize slice tokens for LLMs.
Comprehensive experiments show that LLaVA-UHD outperforms established LMMs
trained with 2-3 orders of magnitude more data on 9 benchmarks. Notably, our
model built on LLaVA-1.5 336x336 supports 6 times larger (i.e., 672x1088)
resolution images using only 94% inference computation, and achieves 6.4
accuracy improvement on TextVQA. Moreover, the model can be efficiently trained
in academic settings, within 23 hours on 8 A100 GPUs (vs. 26 hours of
LLaVA-1.5). We make the data and code publicly available at
https://github.com/thunlp/LLaVA-UHD.

---

## 8. [Generic 3D Diffusion Adapter Using Controlled Multi-View Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.12032)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.12032](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12032)

**Authors**: Hansheng Chen, Ruoxi Shi, Yulin Liu, Bokui Shen, Jiayuan Gu, Gordon Wetzstein, Hao Su, Leonidas Guibas

**Published**: 2024-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Lakonik/MVEdit)

### Abstract

Open-domain 3D object synthesis has been lagging behind image synthesis due
to limited data and higher computational complexity. To bridge this gap, recent
works have investigated multi-view diffusion but often fall short in either 3D
consistency, visual quality, or efficiency. This paper proposes MVEdit, which
functions as a 3D counterpart of SDEdit, employing ancestral sampling to
jointly denoise multi-view images and output high-quality textured meshes.
Built on off-the-shelf 2D diffusion models, MVEdit achieves 3D consistency
through a training-free 3D Adapter, which lifts the 2D views of the last
timestep into a coherent 3D representation, then conditions the 2D views of the
next timestep using rendered views, without uncompromising visual quality. With
an inference time of only 2-5 minutes, this framework achieves better trade-off
between quality and speed than score distillation. MVEdit is highly versatile
and extendable, with a wide range of applications including text/image-to-3D
generation, 3D-to-3D editing, and high-quality texture synthesis. In
particular, evaluations demonstrate state-of-the-art performance in both
image-to-3D and text-guided texture generation tasks. Additionally, we
introduce a method for fine-tuning 2D latent diffusion models on small 3D
datasets with limited resources, enabling fast low-resolution text-to-3D
initialization.

---

## 9. [MindEye2: Shared-Subject Models Enable fMRI-To-Image With 1 Hour of Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.11207)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.11207](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11207)

**Authors**: Paul S. Scotti, Mihir Tripathy, Cesar Kadir Torrico Villanueva, Reese Kneeland, Tong Chen, Ashutosh Narang, Charan Santhirasegaran, Jonathan Xu, Thomas Naselaris, Kenneth A. Norman, Tanishq Mathew Abraham

**Published**: 2024-03-17 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/medarc-ai/mindeyev2)

### Abstract

Reconstructions of visual perception from brain activity have improved
tremendously, but the practical utility of such methods has been limited. This
is because such models are trained independently per subject where each subject
requires dozens of hours of expensive fMRI training data to attain high-quality
results. The present work showcases high-quality reconstructions using only 1
hour of fMRI training data. We pretrain our model across 7 subjects and then
fine-tune on minimal data from a new subject. Our novel functional alignment
procedure linearly maps all brain data to a shared-subject latent space,
followed by a shared non-linear mapping to CLIP image space. We then map from
CLIP space to pixel space by fine-tuning Stable Diffusion XL to accept CLIP
latents as inputs instead of text. This approach improves out-of-subject
generalization with limited training data and also attains state-of-the-art
image retrieval and reconstruction metrics compared to single-subject
approaches. MindEye2 demonstrates how accurate reconstructions of perception
are possible from a single visit to the MRI facility. All code is available on
GitHub.

---

## 10. [DiPaCo: Distributed Path Composition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.10616)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.10616](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10616)

**Authors**: Arthur Douillard, Qixuan Feng, Andrei A. Rusu, Adhiguna Kuncoro, Yani Donchev, Rachita Chhaparia, Ionel Gog, Marc'Aurelio Ranzato, Jiajun Shen, Arthur Szlam

**Published**: 2024-03-15 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Progress in machine learning (ML) has been fueled by scaling neural network
models. This scaling has been enabled by ever more heroic feats of engineering,
necessary for accommodating ML approaches that require high bandwidth
communication between devices working in parallel. In this work, we propose a
co-designed modular architecture and training approach for ML models, dubbed
DIstributed PAth COmposition (DiPaCo). During training, DiPaCo distributes
computation by paths through a set of shared modules. Together with a Local-SGD
inspired optimization (DiLoCo) that keeps modules in sync with drastically
reduced communication, Our approach facilitates training across poorly
connected and heterogeneous workers, with a design that ensures robustness to
worker failures and preemptions. At inference time, only a single path needs to
be executed for each input, without the need for any model compression. We
consider this approach as a first prototype towards a new paradigm of
large-scale learning, one that is less synchronous and more modular. Our
experiments on the widely used C4 benchmark show that, for the same amount of
training steps but less wall-clock time, DiPaCo exceeds the performance of a 1
billion-parameter dense transformer language model by choosing one of 256
possible paths, each with a size of 150 million parameters.

---

## 11. [VideoAgent: A Memory-augmented Multimodal Agent for Video Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.11481)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.11481](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11481)

**Authors**: Yue Fan, Xiaojian Ma, Rujie Wu, Yuntao Du, Jiaqi Li, Zhi Gao, Qing Li

**Published**: 2024-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

We explore how reconciling several foundation models (large language models
and vision-language models) with a novel unified memory mechanism could tackle
the challenging video understanding problem, especially capturing the long-term
temporal relations in lengthy videos. In particular, the proposed multimodal
agent VideoAgent: 1) constructs a structured memory to store both the generic
temporal event descriptions and object-centric tracking states of the video; 2)
given an input task query, it employs tools including video segment
localization and object memory querying along with other visual foundation
models to interactively solve the task, utilizing the zero-shot tool-use
ability of LLMs. VideoAgent demonstrates impressive performances on several
long-horizon video understanding benchmarks, an average increase of 6.6% on
NExT-QA and 26.0% on EgoSchema over baselines, closing the gap between
open-sourced models and private counterparts including Gemini 1.5 Pro.

---

## 12. [LN3Diff: Scalable Latent Neural Fields Diffusion for Speedy 3D
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.12019)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.12019](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12019)

**Authors**: Yushi Lan, Fangzhou Hong, Shuai Yang, Shangchen Zhou, Xuyi Meng, Bo Dai, Xingang Pan, Chen Change Loy

**Published**: 2024-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/nirvanalan/ln3diff)

### Abstract

The field of neural rendering has witnessed significant progress with
advancements in generative models and differentiable rendering techniques.
Though 2D diffusion has achieved success, a unified 3D diffusion pipeline
remains unsettled. This paper introduces a novel framework called LN3Diff to
address this gap and enable fast, high-quality, and generic conditional 3D
generation. Our approach harnesses a 3D-aware architecture and variational
autoencoder (VAE) to encode the input image into a structured, compact, and 3D
latent space. The latent is decoded by a transformer-based decoder into a
high-capacity 3D neural field. Through training a diffusion model on this
3D-aware latent space, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on
ShapeNet for 3D generation and demonstrates superior performance in monocular
3D reconstruction and conditional 3D generation across various datasets.
Moreover, it surpasses existing 3D diffusion methods in terms of inference
speed, requiring no per-instance optimization. Our proposed LN3Diff presents a
significant advancement in 3D generative modeling and holds promise for various
applications in 3D vision and graphics tasks.

---

## 13. [VFusion3D: Learning Scalable 3D Generative Models from Video Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2403.12034)

**ArXiv ID**: [2403.12034](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12034)

**Authors**: Junlin Han, Filippos Kokkinos, Philip Torr

**Published**: 2024-03-18 | **Submitted**: 2024-03-19 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

This paper presents a novel paradigm for building scalable 3D generative
models utilizing pre-trained video diffusion models. The primary obstacle in
developing foundation 3D generative models is the limited availability of 3D
data. Unlike images, texts, or videos, 3D data are not readily accessible and
are difficult to acquire. This results in a significant disparity in scale
compared to the vast quantities of other types of data. To address this issue,
we propose using a video diffusion model, trained with extensive volumes of
text, images, and videos, as a knowledge source for 3D data. By unlocking its
multi-view generative capabilities through fine-tuning, we generate a
large-scale synthetic multi-view dataset to train a feed-forward 3D generative
model. The proposed model, VFusion3D, trained on nearly 3M synthetic multi-view
data, can generate a 3D asset from a single image in seconds and achieves
superior performance when compared to current SOTA feed-forward 3D generative
models, with users preferring our results over 70% of the time.

---
