# Daily Papers - 2025-04-01

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-04-01)

Total papers: 27

---

## 1. [MoCha: Towards Movie-Grade Talking Character Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.23307)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.23307](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23307)

**Authors**: Cong Wei, Bo Sun, Haoyu Ma, Ji Hou, Felix Juefei-Xu, Zecheng He, Xiaoliang Dai, Luxin Zhang, Kunpeng Li, Tingbo Hou, Animesh Sinha, Peter Vajda, Wenhu Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Cong Wei

**Upvotes**: 139

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/congwei1230/MoCha-Demo) | [Project Page](https://congwei1230.github.io/MoCha/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in video generation have achieved impressive motion
realism, yet they often overlook character-driven storytelling, a crucial task
for automated film, animation generation. We introduce Talking Characters, a
more realistic task to generate talking character animations directly from
speech and text. Unlike talking head, Talking Characters aims at generating the
full portrait of one or more characters beyond the facial region. In this
paper, we propose MoCha, the first of its kind to generate talking characters.
To ensure precise synchronization between video and speech, we propose a
speech-video window attention mechanism that effectively aligns speech and
video tokens. To address the scarcity of large-scale speech-labeled video
datasets, we introduce a joint training strategy that leverages both
speech-labeled and text-labeled video data, significantly improving
generalization across diverse character actions. We also design structured
prompt templates with character tags, enabling, for the first time,
multi-character conversation with turn-based dialogue-allowing AI-generated
characters to engage in context-aware conversations with cinematic coherence.
Extensive qualitative and quantitative evaluations, including human preference
studies and benchmark comparisons, demonstrate that MoCha sets a new standard
for AI-generated cinematic storytelling, achieving superior realism,
expressiveness, controllability and generalization.

---

## 2. [TextCrafter: Accurately Rendering Multiple Texts in Complex Visual
  Scenes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.23461)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.23461](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23461)

**Authors**: Nikai Du, Zhennan Chen, Zhizhou Chen, Shan Gao, Xi Chen, Zhengkai Jiang, Jian Yang, Ying Tai

**Published**: 2025-03-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by chen

**Upvotes**: 94

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/NJU-PCALab/TextCrafter) | [Project Page](https://dnknju.github.io/textcrafter-vue/)

### Abstract

This paper explores the task of Complex Visual Text Generation (CVTG), which
centers on generating intricate textual content distributed across diverse
regions within visual images. In CVTG, image generation models often rendering
distorted and blurred visual text or missing some visual text. To tackle these
challenges, we propose TextCrafter, a novel multi-visual text rendering method.
TextCrafter employs a progressive strategy to decompose complex visual text
into distinct components while ensuring robust alignment between textual
content and its visual carrier. Additionally, it incorporates a token focus
enhancement mechanism to amplify the prominence of visual text during the
generation process. TextCrafter effectively addresses key challenges in CVTG
tasks, such as text confusion, omissions, and blurriness. Moreover, we present
a new benchmark dataset, CVTG-2K, tailored to rigorously evaluate the
performance of generative models on CVTG tasks. Extensive experiments
demonstrate that our method surpasses state-of-the-art approaches.

---

## 3. [Open-Reasoner-Zero: An Open Source Approach to Scaling Up Reinforcement
  Learning on the Base Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.24290)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.24290](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.24290)

**Authors**: Jingcheng Hu, Yinmin Zhang, Qi Han, Daxin Jiang, Xiangyu Zhang, Heung-Yeung Shum

**Published**: 2025-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 62

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Open-Reasoner-Zero/Open-Reasoner-Zero) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/Open-Reasoner-Zero)

### Abstract

We introduce Open-Reasoner-Zero, the first open source implementation of
large-scale reasoning-oriented RL training focusing on scalability, simplicity
and accessibility. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that a
minimalist approach, vanilla PPO with GAE (lambda=1, gamma=1) and
straightforward rule-based rewards, without any KL regularization, is
sufficient to scale up both response length and benchmark performance, similar
to the phenomenon observed in DeepSeek-R1-Zero. Using the same base model as
DeepSeek-R1-Zero-Qwen-32B, our implementation achieves superior performance on
AIME2024, MATH500, and the GPQA Diamond benchmark while demonstrating
remarkable efficiency -- requiring only a tenth of the training steps, compared
to DeepSeek-R1-Zero pipeline. In the spirit of open source, we release our
source code, parameter settings, training data, and model weights across
various sizes.

---

## 4. [What, How, Where, and How Well? A Survey on Test-Time Scaling in Large
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.24235)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.24235](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.24235)

**Authors**: Qiyuan Zhang, Fuyuan Lyu, Zexu Sun, Lei Wang, Weixu Zhang, Zhihan Guo, Yufei Wang, Irwin King, Xue Liu, Chen Ma

**Published**: 2025-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Qiyuan Zhang

**Upvotes**: 55

### Abstract

As enthusiasm for scaling computation (data and parameters) in the
pretraining era gradually diminished, test-time scaling (TTS), also referred to
as ``test-time computing'' has emerged as a prominent research focus. Recent
studies demonstrate that TTS can further elicit the problem-solving
capabilities of large language models (LLMs), enabling significant
breakthroughs not only in specialized reasoning tasks, such as mathematics and
coding, but also in general tasks like open-ended Q&A. However, despite the
explosion of recent efforts in this area, there remains an urgent need for a
comprehensive survey offering a systemic understanding. To fill this gap, we
propose a unified, multidimensional framework structured along four core
dimensions of TTS research: what to scale, how to scale, where to scale, and
how well to scale. Building upon this taxonomy, we conduct an extensive review
of methods, application scenarios, and assessment aspects, and present an
organized decomposition that highlights the unique functional roles of
individual techniques within the broader TTS landscape. From this analysis, we
distill the major developmental trajectories of TTS to date and offer hands-on
guidelines for practical deployment. Furthermore, we identify several open
challenges and offer insights into promising future directions, including
further scaling, clarifying the functional essence of techniques, generalizing
to more tasks, and more attributions.

---

## 5. [Efficient Inference for Large Reasoning Models: A Survey](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.23077)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.23077](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23077)

**Authors**: Yue Liu, Jiaying Wu, Yufei He, Hongcheng Gao, Hongyu Chen, Baolong Bi, Jiaheng Zhang, Zhiqi Huang, Bryan Hooi

**Published**: 2025-03-29 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by yueliu1999

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yueliu1999/awesome-efficient-inference-for-lrms)

### Abstract

Large Reasoning Models (LRMs) significantly improve the reasoning ability of
Large Language Models (LLMs) by learning to reason, exhibiting promising
performance in complex task-solving. However, their deliberative reasoning
process leads to inefficiencies in token usage, memory consumption, and
inference time. Thus, this survey provides a review of efficient inference
methods designed specifically for LRMs, focusing on mitigating token
inefficiency while preserving the reasoning quality. First, we introduce a
taxonomy to group the recent methods into two main categories: (a) explicit
compact Chain-of-Thought (CoT), which reduces tokens while keeping the explicit
reasoning structure, and (b) implicit latent CoT, which encodes reasoning steps
within hidden representations instead of explicit tokens. Meanwhile, we discuss
their strengths and weaknesses. Then, we conduct empirical analyses on existing
methods from performance and efficiency aspects. Besides, we present open
challenges in this field, including human-centric controllable reasoning,
trade-off between interpretability and efficiency of reasoning, ensuring safety
of efficient reasoning, and broader applications of efficient reasoning. In
addition, we highlight key insights for enhancing LRMs' inference efficiency
via techniques such as model merging, new architectures, and agent routers. We
hope this work serves as a valuable guide, helping researchers overcome
challenges in this vibrant
fieldhttps://github.com/yueliu1999/Awesome-Efficient-Inference-for-LRMs.

---

## 6. [TokenHSI: Unified Synthesis of Physical Human-Scene Interactions through
  Task Tokenization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.19901)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.19901](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19901)

**Authors**: Liang Pan, Zeshi Yang, Zhiyang Dou, Wenjia Wang, Buzhen Huang, Bo Dai, Taku Komura, Jingbo Wang

**Published**: 2025-03-25 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Liang Pan

**Upvotes**: 41

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/liangpan99/TokenHSI) | [Project Page](https://liangpan99.github.io/TokenHSI/)

### Abstract

Synthesizing diverse and physically plausible Human-Scene Interactions (HSI)
is pivotal for both computer animation and embodied AI. Despite encouraging
progress, current methods mainly focus on developing separate controllers, each
specialized for a specific interaction task. This significantly hinders the
ability to tackle a wide variety of challenging HSI tasks that require the
integration of multiple skills, e.g., sitting down while carrying an object. To
address this issue, we present TokenHSI, a single, unified transformer-based
policy capable of multi-skill unification and flexible adaptation. The key
insight is to model the humanoid proprioception as a separate shared token and
combine it with distinct task tokens via a masking mechanism. Such a unified
policy enables effective knowledge sharing across skills, thereby facilitating
the multi-task training. Moreover, our policy architecture supports variable
length inputs, enabling flexible adaptation of learned skills to new scenarios.
By training additional task tokenizers, we can not only modify the geometries
of interaction targets but also coordinate multiple skills to address complex
tasks. The experiments demonstrate that our approach can significantly improve
versatility, adaptability, and extensibility in various HSI tasks. Website:
https://liangpan99.github.io/TokenHSI/

---

## 7. [Unicorn: Text-Only Data Synthesis for Vision Language Model Training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.22655)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.22655](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.22655)

**Authors**: Xiaomin Yu, Pengxiang Ding, Wenjie Zhang, Siteng Huang, Songyang Gao, Chengwei Qin, Kejian Wu, Zhaoxin Fan, Ziyue Qiao, Donglin Wang

**Published**: 2025-03-28 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by SongYang Gao

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Yu-xm/Unicorn) | [Project Page](https://github.com/Yu-xm/Unicorn.git)

### Abstract

Training vision-language models (VLMs) typically requires large-scale,
high-quality image-text pairs, but collecting or synthesizing such data is
costly. In contrast, text data is abundant and inexpensive, prompting the
question: can high-quality multimodal training data be synthesized purely from
text? To tackle this, we propose a cross-integrated three-stage multimodal data
synthesis framework, which generates two datasets: Unicorn-1.2M and
Unicorn-471K-Instruction. In Stage 1: Diverse Caption Data Synthesis, we
construct 1.2M semantically diverse high-quality captions by expanding sparse
caption seeds using large language models (LLMs). In Stage 2:
Instruction-Tuning Data Generation, we further process 471K captions into
multi-turn instruction-tuning tasks to support complex reasoning. Finally, in
Stage 3: Modality Representation Transfer, these textual captions
representations are transformed into visual representations, resulting in
diverse synthetic image representations. This three-stage process enables us to
construct Unicorn-1.2M for pretraining and Unicorn-471K-Instruction for
instruction-tuning, without relying on real images. By eliminating the
dependency on real images while maintaining data quality and diversity, our
framework offers a cost-effective and scalable solution for VLMs training. Code
is available at https://github.com/Yu-xm/Unicorn.git.

---

## 8. [RIG: Synergizing Reasoning and Imagination in End-to-End Generalist
  Policy](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.24388)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.24388](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.24388)

**Authors**: Zhonghan Zhao, Wenwei Zhang, Haian Huang, Kuikun Liu, Jianfei Gao, Gaoang Wang, Kai Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Yuzhe Gu

**Upvotes**: 29

### Abstract

Reasoning before action and imagining potential outcomes (i.e., world models)
are essential for embodied agents operating in complex open-world environments.
Yet, prior work either incorporates only one of these abilities in an
end-to-end agent or integrates multiple specialized models into an agent
system, limiting the learning efficiency and generalization of the policy.
Thus, this paper makes the first attempt to synergize Reasoning and Imagination
in an end-to-end Generalist policy, termed RIG. To train RIG in an end-to-end
manner, we construct a data pipeline that progressively integrates and enriches
the content of imagination and reasoning in the trajectories collected from
existing agents. The joint learning of reasoning and next image generation
explicitly models the inherent correlation between reasoning, action, and
dynamics of environments, and thus exhibits more than 17times sample
efficiency improvements and generalization in comparison with previous works.
During inference, RIG first reasons about the next action, produces potential
action, and then predicts the action outcomes, which offers the agent a chance
to review and self-correct based on the imagination before taking real actions.
Experimental results show that the synergy of reasoning and imagination not
only improves the robustness, generalization, and interoperability of
generalist policy but also enables test-time scaling to enhance overall
performance.

---

## 9. [Expanding RL with Verifiable Rewards Across Diverse Domains](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.23829)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.23829](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23829)

**Authors**: Yi Su, Dian Yu, Linfeng Song, Juntao Li, Haitao Mi, Zhaopeng Tu, Min Zhang, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2025-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 24

**Links**: [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/collections/virtuoussy/rlvr-67ea349b086e3511f86d1c1f)

### Abstract

Reinforcement learning (RL) with verifiable rewards (RLVR) has shown
promising results in mathematical reasoning and coding tasks where
well-structured reference answers are available. However, its applicability to
broader domains remains underexplored. In this work, we study the extension of
RLVR to more diverse domains such as medicine, chemistry, psychology, and
economics. We observe high agreement in binary judgments across different large
language models (LLMs) when objective reference answers exist, which challenges
the necessity of large-scale annotation for training domain-specific reward
models. To address the limitations of binary rewards when handling unstructured
reference answers, we further incorporate model-based soft scoring into RLVR to
improve its flexibility. Our experiments show that a distilled generative
reward model can serve as an effective cross-domain verifier, providing
reliable reward signals for RL without requiring domain-specific annotations.
By fine-tuning a base 7B model using various RL algorithms against our reward
model, we obtain policies that outperform state-of-the-art open-source aligned
LLMs such as Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct and DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B by a large
margin, across domains in free-form answer settings. This also strengthens
RLVR's robustness and scalability, highlighting its potential for real-world
applications with noisy or weak labels.

---

## 10. [SketchVideo: Sketch-based Video Generation and Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.23284)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.23284](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23284)

**Authors**: Feng-Lin Liu, Hongbo Fu, Xintao Wang, Weicai Ye, Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang, Lin Gao

**Published**: 2025-03-30 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Feng-Lin Liu

**Upvotes**: 23

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/IGLICT/SketchVideo) | [Project Page](http://geometrylearning.com/SketchVideo/)

### Abstract

Video generation and editing conditioned on text prompts or images have
undergone significant advancements. However, challenges remain in accurately
controlling global layout and geometry details solely by texts, and supporting
motion control and local modification through images. In this paper, we aim to
achieve sketch-based spatial and motion control for video generation and
support fine-grained editing of real or synthetic videos. Based on the DiT
video generation model, we propose a memory-efficient control structure with
sketch control blocks that predict residual features of skipped DiT blocks.
Sketches are drawn on one or two keyframes (at arbitrary time points) for easy
interaction. To propagate such temporally sparse sketch conditions across all
frames, we propose an inter-frame attention mechanism to analyze the
relationship between the keyframes and each video frame. For sketch-based video
editing, we design an additional video insertion module that maintains
consistency between the newly edited content and the original video's spatial
feature and dynamic motion. During inference, we use latent fusion for the
accurate preservation of unedited regions. Extensive experiments demonstrate
that our SketchVideo achieves superior performance in controllable video
generation and editing.

---

## 11. [Effectively Controlling Reasoning Models through Thinking Intervention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.24370)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.24370](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.24370)

**Authors**: Tong Wu, Chong Xiang, Jiachen T. Wang, Prateek Mittal

**Published**: 2025-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Tong Wu

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Reasoning-enhanced large language models (LLMs) explicitly generate
intermediate reasoning steps prior to generating final answers, helping the
model excel in complex problem-solving. In this paper, we demonstrate that this
emerging generation framework offers a unique opportunity for more fine-grained
control over model behavior. We propose Thinking Intervention, a novel paradigm
designed to explicitly guide the internal reasoning processes of LLMs by
strategically inserting or revising specific thinking tokens. We conduct
comprehensive evaluations across multiple tasks, including instruction
following on IFEval, instruction hierarchy on SEP, and safety alignment on
XSTest and SORRY-Bench. Our results demonstrate that Thinking Intervention
significantly outperforms baseline prompting approaches, achieving up to 6.7%
accuracy gains in instruction-following scenarios, 15.4% improvements in
reasoning about instruction hierarchies, and a 40.0% increase in refusal rates
for unsafe prompts using open-source DeepSeek R1 models. Overall, our work
opens a promising new research avenue for controlling reasoning LLMs.

---

## 12. [Query and Conquer: Execution-Guided SQL Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.24364)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.24364](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.24364)

**Authors**: Łukasz Borchmann, Marek Wydmuch

**Published**: 2025-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Łukasz Borchmann

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

We propose a novel approach for generating complex outputs that significantly
improves accuracy in text-to-SQL tasks. Our method leverages execution results
to select the most semantically consistent query from multiple candidates,
enabling smaller, cost-effective models to surpass computationally intensive
reasoning methods such as o1, o3-mini, and DeepSeek R1 while reducing inference
cost by as much as 30 times. It integrates effortlessly with existing models,
offering a practical and scalable pathway to state-of-the-art SQL generation.

---

## 13. [Progressive Rendering Distillation: Adapting Stable Diffusion for
  Instant Text-to-Mesh Generation without 3D Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.21694)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.21694](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.21694)

**Authors**: Zhiyuan Ma, Xinyue Liang, Rongyuan Wu, Xiangyu Zhu, Zhen Lei, Lei Zhang

**Published**: 2025-03-27 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Zhiyuan Ma

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/theEricMa/TriplaneTurbo) | [Project Page](https://theericma.github.io/TriplaneTurbo/)

### Abstract

It is highly desirable to obtain a model that can generate high-quality 3D
meshes from text prompts in just seconds. While recent attempts have adapted
pre-trained text-to-image diffusion models, such as Stable Diffusion (SD), into
generators of 3D representations (e.g., Triplane), they often suffer from poor
quality due to the lack of sufficient high-quality 3D training data. Aiming at
overcoming the data shortage, we propose a novel training scheme, termed as
Progressive Rendering Distillation (PRD), eliminating the need for 3D
ground-truths by distilling multi-view diffusion models and adapting SD into a
native 3D generator. In each iteration of training, PRD uses the U-Net to
progressively denoise the latent from random noise for a few steps, and in each
step it decodes the denoised latent into 3D output. Multi-view diffusion
models, including MVDream and RichDreamer, are used in joint with SD to distill
text-consistent textures and geometries into the 3D outputs through score
distillation. Since PRD supports training without 3D ground-truths, we can
easily scale up the training data and improve generation quality for
challenging text prompts with creative concepts. Meanwhile, PRD can accelerate
the inference speed of the generation model in just a few steps. With PRD, we
train a Triplane generator, namely TriplaneTurbo, which adds only 2.5%
trainable parameters to adapt SD for Triplane generation. TriplaneTurbo
outperforms previous text-to-3D generators in both efficiency and quality.
Specifically, it can produce high-quality 3D meshes in 1.2 seconds and
generalize well for challenging text input. The code is available at
https://github.com/theEricMa/TriplaneTurbo.

---

## 14. [ActionStudio: A Lightweight Framework for Data and Training of Large
  Action Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.22673)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.22673](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.22673)

**Authors**: Jianguo Zhang, Thai Hoang, Ming Zhu, Zuxin Liu, Shiyu Wang, Tulika Awalgaonkar, Akshara Prabhakar, Haolin Chen, Weiran Yao, Zhiwei Liu, Juntao Tan, Juan Carlos Niebles, Shelby Heinecke, Huan Wang, Silvio Savarese, Caiming Xiong

**Published**: 2025-03-28 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Jianguo Zhang

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

Action models are essential for enabling autonomous agents to perform complex
tasks. However, training large action models remains challenging due to the
diversity of agent environments and the complexity of agentic data. Despite
growing interest, existing infrastructure provides limited support for
scalable, agent-specific fine-tuning. We present ActionStudio, a lightweight
and extensible data and training framework designed for large action models.
ActionStudio unifies heterogeneous agent trajectories through a standardized
format, supports diverse training paradigms including LoRA, full fine-tuning,
and distributed setups, and integrates robust preprocessing and verification
tools. We validate its effectiveness across both public and realistic industry
benchmarks, demonstrating strong performance and practical scalability. We
open-sourced code and data at https://github.com/SalesforceAIResearch/xLAM to
facilitate research in the community.

---

## 15. [TeleAntiFraud-28k: A Audio-Text Slow-Thinking Dataset for Telecom Fraud
  Detection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.24115)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.24115](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.24115)

**Authors**: Zhiming Ma, Peidong Wang, Minhua Huang, Jingpeng Wang, Kai Wu, Xiangzhao Lv, Yachun Pang, Yin Yang, Wenjie Tang, Yuchen Kang

**Published**: 2025-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by ZhimingMa

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jimmyma99/teleantifraud)

### Abstract

The detection of telecom fraud faces significant challenges due to the lack
of high-quality multimodal training data that integrates audio signals with
reasoning-oriented textual analysis. To address this gap, we present
TeleAntiFraud-28k, the first open-source audio-text slow-thinking dataset
specifically designed for automated telecom fraud analysis. Our dataset is
constructed through three strategies: (1) Privacy-preserved text-truth sample
generation using automatically speech recognition (ASR)-transcribed call
recordings (with anonymized original audio), ensuring real-world consistency
through text-to-speech (TTS) model regeneration; (2) Semantic enhancement via
large language model (LLM)-based self-instruction sampling on authentic ASR
outputs to expand scenario coverage; (3) Multi-agent adversarial synthesis that
simulates emerging fraud tactics through predefined communication scenarios and
fraud typologies. The generated dataset contains 28,511 rigorously processed
speech-text pairs, complete with detailed annotations for fraud reasoning. The
dataset is divided into three tasks: scenario classification, fraud detection,
fraud type classification. Furthermore, we construct TeleAntiFraud-Bench, a
standardized evaluation benchmark comprising proportionally sampled instances
from the dataset, to facilitate systematic testing of model performance on
telecom fraud detection tasks. We also contribute a production-optimized
supervised fine-tuning (SFT) model trained on hybrid real/synthetic data, while
open-sourcing the data processing framework to enable community-driven dataset
expansion. This work establishes a foundational framework for multimodal
anti-fraud research while addressing critical challenges in data privacy and
scenario diversity. The project will be released at
https://github.com/JimmyMa99/TeleAntiFraud.

---

## 16. [Classical Planning with LLM-Generated Heuristics: Challenging the State
  of the Art with Python Code](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.18809)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.18809](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18809)

**Authors**: Augusto B. Corrêa, André G. Pereira, Jendrik Seipp

**Published**: 2025-03-24 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Augusto B. Corrêa

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

In recent years, large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable
capabilities in various artificial intelligence problems. However, they fail to
plan reliably, even when prompted with a detailed definition of the planning
task. Attempts to improve their planning capabilities, such as chain-of-thought
prompting, fine-tuning, and explicit "reasoning" still yield incorrect plans
and usually fail to generalize to larger tasks. In this paper, we show how to
use LLMs to generate correct plans, even for out-of-distribution tasks of
increasing size. For a given planning domain, we ask an LLM to generate several
domain-dependent heuristic functions in the form of Python code, evaluate them
on a set of training tasks within a greedy best-first search, and choose the
strongest one. The resulting LLM-generated heuristics solve many more unseen
test tasks than state-of-the-art domain-independent heuristics for classical
planning. They are even competitive with the strongest learning algorithm for
domain-dependent planning. These findings are especially remarkable given that
our proof-of-concept implementation is based on an unoptimized Python planner
and the baselines all build upon highly optimized C++ code. In some domains,
the LLM-generated heuristics expand fewer states than the baselines, revealing
that they are not only efficiently computable, but sometimes even more
informative than the state-of-the-art heuristics. Overall, our results show
that sampling a set of planning heuristic function programs can significantly
improve the planning capabilities of LLMs.

---

## 17. [AvatarArtist: Open-Domain 4D Avatarization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.19906)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.19906](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19906)

**Authors**: Hongyu Liu, Xuan Wang, Ziyu Wan, Yue Ma, Jingye Chen, Yanbo Fan, Yujun Shen, Yibing Song, Qifeng Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-25 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Hongyu LIU

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ant-research/AvatarArtist) | [Project Page](https://kumapowerliu.github.io/AvatarArtist/)

### Abstract

This work focuses on open-domain 4D avatarization, with the purpose of
creating a 4D avatar from a portrait image in an arbitrary style. We select
parametric triplanes as the intermediate 4D representation and propose a
practical training paradigm that takes advantage of both generative adversarial
networks (GANs) and diffusion models. Our design stems from the observation
that 4D GANs excel at bridging images and triplanes without supervision yet
usually face challenges in handling diverse data distributions. A robust 2D
diffusion prior emerges as the solution, assisting the GAN in transferring its
expertise across various domains. The synergy between these experts permits the
construction of a multi-domain image-triplane dataset, which drives the
development of a general 4D avatar creator. Extensive experiments suggest that
our model, AvatarArtist, is capable of producing high-quality 4D avatars with
strong robustness to various source image domains. The code, the data, and the
models will be made publicly available to facilitate future studies..

---

## 18. [Easi3R: Estimating Disentangled Motion from DUSt3R Without Training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.24391)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.24391](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.24391)

**Authors**: Xingyu Chen, Yue Chen, Yuliang Xiu, Andreas Geiger, Anpei Chen

**Published**: 2025-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Xingyu Chen

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Inception3D/Easi3R) | [Project Page](https://easi3r.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent advances in DUSt3R have enabled robust estimation of dense point
clouds and camera parameters of static scenes, leveraging Transformer network
architectures and direct supervision on large-scale 3D datasets. In contrast,
the limited scale and diversity of available 4D datasets present a major
bottleneck for training a highly generalizable 4D model. This constraint has
driven conventional 4D methods to fine-tune 3D models on scalable dynamic video
data with additional geometric priors such as optical flow and depths. In this
work, we take an opposite path and introduce Easi3R, a simple yet efficient
training-free method for 4D reconstruction. Our approach applies attention
adaptation during inference, eliminating the need for from-scratch pre-training
or network fine-tuning. We find that the attention layers in DUSt3R inherently
encode rich information about camera and object motion. By carefully
disentangling these attention maps, we achieve accurate dynamic region
segmentation, camera pose estimation, and 4D dense point map reconstruction.
Extensive experiments on real-world dynamic videos demonstrate that our
lightweight attention adaptation significantly outperforms previous
state-of-the-art methods that are trained or finetuned on extensive dynamic
datasets. Our code is publicly available for research purpose at
https://easi3r.github.io/

---

## 19. [MeshCraft: Exploring Efficient and Controllable Mesh Generation with
  Flow-based DiTs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.23022)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.23022](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23022)

**Authors**: Xianglong He, Junyi Chen, Di Huang, Zexiang Liu, Xiaoshui Huang, Wanli Ouyang, Chun Yuan, Yangguang Li

**Published**: 2025-03-29 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Yangguang Li

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

In the domain of 3D content creation, achieving optimal mesh topology through
AI models has long been a pursuit for 3D artists. Previous methods, such as
MeshGPT, have explored the generation of ready-to-use 3D objects via mesh
auto-regressive techniques. While these methods produce visually impressive
results, their reliance on token-by-token predictions in the auto-regressive
process leads to several significant limitations. These include extremely slow
generation speeds and an uncontrollable number of mesh faces. In this paper, we
introduce MeshCraft, a novel framework for efficient and controllable mesh
generation, which leverages continuous spatial diffusion to generate discrete
triangle faces. Specifically, MeshCraft consists of two core components: 1) a
transformer-based VAE that encodes raw meshes into continuous face-level tokens
and decodes them back to the original meshes, and 2) a flow-based diffusion
transformer conditioned on the number of faces, enabling the generation of
high-quality 3D meshes with a predefined number of faces. By utilizing the
diffusion model for the simultaneous generation of the entire mesh topology,
MeshCraft achieves high-fidelity mesh generation at significantly faster speeds
compared to auto-regressive methods. Specifically, MeshCraft can generate an
800-face mesh in just 3.2 seconds (35times faster than existing baselines).
Extensive experiments demonstrate that MeshCraft outperforms state-of-the-art
techniques in both qualitative and quantitative evaluations on ShapeNet dataset
and demonstrates superior performance on Objaverse dataset. Moreover, it
integrates seamlessly with existing conditional guidance strategies, showcasing
its potential to relieve artists from the time-consuming manual work involved
in mesh creation.

---

## 20. [DSO: Aligning 3D Generators with Simulation Feedback for Physical
  Soundness](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.22677)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.22677](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.22677)

**Authors**: Ruining Li, Chuanxia Zheng, Christian Rupprecht, Andrea Vedaldi

**Published**: 2025-03-28 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [Project Page](https://ruiningli.com/dso)

### Abstract

Most 3D object generators focus on aesthetic quality, often neglecting
physical constraints necessary in applications. One such constraint is that the
3D object should be self-supporting, i.e., remains balanced under gravity.
Prior approaches to generating stable 3D objects used differentiable physics
simulators to optimize geometry at test-time, which is slow, unstable, and
prone to local optima. Inspired by the literature on aligning generative models
to external feedback, we propose Direct Simulation Optimization (DSO), a
framework to use the feedback from a (non-differentiable) simulator to increase
the likelihood that the 3D generator outputs stable 3D objects directly. We
construct a dataset of 3D objects labeled with a stability score obtained from
the physics simulator. We can then fine-tune the 3D generator using the
stability score as the alignment metric, via direct preference optimization
(DPO) or direct reward optimization (DRO), a novel objective, which we
introduce, to align diffusion models without requiring pairwise preferences.
Our experiments show that the fine-tuned feed-forward generator, using either
DPO or DRO objective, is much faster and more likely to produce stable objects
than test-time optimization. Notably, the DSO framework works even without any
ground-truth 3D objects for training, allowing the 3D generator to self-improve
by automatically collecting simulation feedback on its own outputs.

---

## 21. [UPME: An Unsupervised Peer Review Framework for Multimodal Large
  Language Model Evaluation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14941)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.14941](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14941)

**Authors**: Qihui Zhang, Munan Ning, Zheyuan Liu, Yanbo Wang, Jiayi Ye, Yue Huang, Shuo Yang, Xiao Chen, Yibing Song, Li Yuan

**Published**: 2025-03-19 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Qihui Zhang

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have emerged to tackle the
challenges of Visual Question Answering (VQA), sparking a new research focus on
conducting objective evaluations of these models. Existing evaluation methods
face limitations due to the significant human workload required to design Q&A
pairs for visual images, which inherently restricts the scale and scope of
evaluations. Although automated MLLM-as-judge approaches attempt to reduce the
human workload through automatic evaluations, they often introduce biases. To
address these problems, we propose an Unsupervised Peer review MLLM Evaluation
framework. It utilizes only image data, allowing models to automatically
generate questions and conduct peer review assessments of answers from other
models, effectively alleviating the reliance on human workload. Additionally,
we introduce the vision-language scoring system to mitigate the bias issues,
which focuses on three aspects: (i) response correctness; (ii) visual
understanding and reasoning; and (iii) image-text correlation. Experimental
results demonstrate that UPME achieves a Pearson correlation of 0.944 with
human evaluations on the MMstar dataset and 0.814 on the ScienceQA dataset,
indicating that our framework closely aligns with human-designed benchmarks and
inherent human preferences.

---

## 22. [Entropy-Based Adaptive Weighting for Self-Training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.23913)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.23913](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23913)

**Authors**: Xiaoxuan Wang, Yihe Deng, Mingyu Derek Ma, Wei Wang

**Published**: 2025-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Xiaoxuan Wang

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mandyyyyii/east)

### Abstract

The mathematical problem-solving capabilities of large language models have
become a focal point of research, with growing interests in leveraging
self-generated reasoning paths as a promising way to refine and enhance these
models. These paths capture step-by-step logical processes while requiring only
the correct answer for supervision. The self-training method has been shown to
be effective in reasoning tasks while eliminating the need for external models
and manual annotations. However, optimizing the use of self-generated data for
model training remains an open challenge. In this work, we propose
Entropy-Based Adaptive Weighting for Self-Training (EAST), an adaptive
weighting strategy designed to prioritize uncertain data during self-training.
Specifically, EAST employs a mapping function with a tunable parameter that
controls the sharpness of the weighting, assigning higher weights to data where
the model exhibits greater uncertainty. This approach guides the model to focus
on more informative and challenging examples, thereby enhancing its reasoning
ability. We evaluate our approach on GSM8K and MATH benchmarks. Empirical
results show that, while the vanilla method yields virtually no improvement
(0%) on MATH, EAST achieves around a 1% gain over backbone model. On GSM8K,
EAST attains a further 1-2% performance boost compared to the vanilla method.

---

## 23. [KOFFVQA: An Objectively Evaluated Free-form VQA Benchmark for Large
  Vision-Language Models in the Korean Language](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.23730)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.23730](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23730)

**Authors**: Yoonshik Kim, Jaeyoon Jung

**Published**: 2025-03-31 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Jaeyoon Jung

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/maum-ai/KOFFVQA)

### Abstract

The recent emergence of Large Vision-Language Models(VLMs) has resulted in a
variety of different benchmarks for evaluating such models. Despite this, we
observe that most existing evaluation methods suffer from the fact that they
either require the model to choose from pre-determined responses, sacrificing
open-endedness, or evaluate responses using a judge model, resulting in
subjective and unreliable evaluation. In addition, we observe a lack of
benchmarks for VLMs in the Korean language, which are necessary as a separate
metric from more common English language benchmarks, as the performance of
generative language models can differ significantly based on the language being
used. Therefore, we present KOFFVQA, a general-purpose free-form visual
question answering benchmark in the Korean language for the evaluation of VLMs.
Our benchmark consists of 275 carefully crafted questions each paired with an
image and grading criteria covering 10 different aspects of VLM performance.
The grading criteria eliminate the problem of unreliability by allowing the
judge model to grade each response based on a pre-determined set of rules. By
defining the evaluation criteria in an objective manner, even a small
open-source model can be used to evaluate models on our benchmark reliably. In
addition to evaluating a large number of existing VLMs on our benchmark, we
also experimentally verify that our method of using pre-existing grading
criteria for evaluation is much more reliable than existing methods. Our
evaluation code is available at https://github.com/maum-ai/KOFFVQA

---

## 24. [Bridging Evolutionary Multiobjective Optimization and GPU Acceleration
  via Tensorization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.20286)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.20286](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.20286)

**Authors**: Zhenyu Liang, Hao Li, Naiwei Yu, Kebin Sun, Ran Cheng

**Published**: 2025-03-26 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Zhenyu Liang

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/EMI-Group/evomo)

### Abstract

Evolutionary multiobjective optimization (EMO) has made significant strides
over the past two decades. However, as problem scales and complexities
increase, traditional EMO algorithms face substantial performance limitations
due to insufficient parallelism and scalability. While most work has focused on
algorithm design to address these challenges, little attention has been given
to hardware acceleration, thereby leaving a clear gap between EMO algorithms
and advanced computing devices, such as GPUs. To bridge the gap, we propose to
parallelize EMO algorithms on GPUs via the tensorization methodology. By
employing tensorization, the data structures and operations of EMO algorithms
are transformed into concise tensor representations, which seamlessly enables
automatic utilization of GPU computing. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our
approach by applying it to three representative EMO algorithms: NSGA-III,
MOEA/D, and HypE. To comprehensively assess our methodology, we introduce a
multiobjective robot control benchmark using a GPU-accelerated physics engine.
Our experiments show that the tensorized EMO algorithms achieve speedups of up
to 1113x compared to their CPU-based counterparts, while maintaining solution
quality and effectively scaling population sizes to hundreds of thousands.
Furthermore, the tensorized EMO algorithms efficiently tackle complex
multiobjective robot control tasks, producing high-quality solutions with
diverse behaviors. Source codes are available at
https://github.com/EMI-Group/evomo.

---

## 25. [PAVE: Patching and Adapting Video Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.19794)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.19794](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19794)

**Authors**: Zhuoming Liu, Yiquan Li, Khoi Duc Nguyen, Yiwu Zhong, Yin Li

**Published**: 2025-03-25 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Zhuoming Liu

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dragonlzm/PAVE) | [Project Page](https://github.com/dragonlzm/PAVE)

### Abstract

Pre-trained video large language models (Video LLMs) exhibit remarkable
reasoning capabilities, yet adapting these models to new tasks involving
additional modalities or data types (e.g., audio or 3D information) remains
challenging. In this paper, we present PAVE, a flexible framework for adapting
pre-trained Video LLMs to downstream tasks with side-channel signals, such as
audio, 3D cues, or multi-view videos. PAVE introduces lightweight adapters,
referred to as "patches," which add a small number of parameters and operations
to a base model without modifying its architecture or pre-trained weights. In
doing so, PAVE can effectively adapt the pre-trained base model to support
diverse downstream tasks, including audio-visual question answering, 3D
reasoning, multi-view video recognition, and high frame rate video
understanding. Across these tasks, PAVE significantly enhances the performance
of the base model, surpassing state-of-the-art task-specific models while
incurring a minor cost of ~0.1% additional FLOPs and parameters. Further, PAVE
supports multi-task learning and generalizes well across different Video LLMs.
Our code is available at https://github.com/dragonlzm/PAVE.

---

## 26. [Decoupling Angles and Strength in Low-rank Adaptation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.18225)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.18225](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18225)

**Authors**: Massimo Bini, Leander Girrbach, Zeynep Akata

**Published**: 2025-03-23 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Massimo Bini

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ExplainableML/DeLoRA)

### Abstract

Parameter-Efficient FineTuning (PEFT) methods have recently gained
significant popularity thanks to the widespread availability of large-scale
pretrained models. These methods allow for quick adaptation to downstream tasks
with minimal computational cost. However, popular finetuning methods such as
LoRA exhibit limited robustness when it comes to hyperparameter choices or
extended training regimes, preventing optimal out-of-the-box performance. In
contrast, bounded approaches, such as ETHER, provide greater robustness but are
limited to extremely low-rank adaptations and fixed-strength transformations,
reducing their adaptation expressive power. In this work, we propose Decoupled
Low-rank Adaptation (DeLoRA), a novel finetuning method that normalizes and
scales learnable low-rank matrices. By bounding the distance of the
transformation, DeLoRA effectively decouples the angular learning from the
adaptation strength, enhancing robustness without compromising performance.
Through evaluations on subject-driven image generation, natural language
understanding, and instruction tuning, we show that DeLoRA matches or surpasses
performance of competing PEFT methods, while exhibiting stronger robustness.
Code is available at https://github.com/ExplainableML/DeLoRA.

---

## 27. [Understanding Co-speech Gestures in-the-wild](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.22668)

**ArXiv ID**: [2503.22668](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.22668)

**Authors**: Sindhu B Hegde, K R Prajwal, Taein Kwon, Andrew Zisserman

**Published**: 2025-03-28 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-01 by Sindhu Hegde

**Upvotes**: 0

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Sindhu-Hegde/jegal) | [Project Page](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/research/jegal/)

### Abstract

Co-speech gestures play a vital role in non-verbal communication. In this
paper, we introduce a new framework for co-speech gesture understanding in the
wild. Specifically, we propose three new tasks and benchmarks to evaluate a
model's capability to comprehend gesture-text-speech associations: (i)
gesture-based retrieval, (ii) gestured word spotting, and (iii) active speaker
detection using gestures. We present a new approach that learns a tri-modal
speech-text-video-gesture representation to solve these tasks. By leveraging a
combination of global phrase contrastive loss and local gesture-word coupling
loss, we demonstrate that a strong gesture representation can be learned in a
weakly supervised manner from videos in the wild. Our learned representations
outperform previous methods, including large vision-language models (VLMs),
across all three tasks. Further analysis reveals that speech and text
modalities capture distinct gesture-related signals, underscoring the
advantages of learning a shared tri-modal embedding space. The dataset, model,
and code are available at: https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/research/jegal

---
