# Daily Papers - 2025-04-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-04-10)

Total papers: 19

---

## 1. [OLMoTrace: Tracing Language Model Outputs Back to Trillions of Training
  Tokens](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07096)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07096](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07096)

**Authors**: Jiacheng Liu, Taylor Blanton, Yanai Elazar, Sewon Min, YenSung Chen, Arnavi Chheda-Kothary, Huy Tran, Byron Bischoff, Eric Marsh, Michael Schmitz, Cassidy Trier, Aaron Sarnat, Jenna James, Jon Borchardt, Bailey Kuehl, Evie Cheng, Karen Farley, Sruthi Sreeram, Taira Anderson, David Albright, Carissa Schoenick, Luca Soldaini, Dirk Groeneveld, Rock Yuren Pang, Pang Wei Koh, Noah A. Smith, Sophie Lebrecht, Yejin Choi, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Ali Farhadi, Jesse Dodge

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Jiacheng Liu

**Upvotes**: 77

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/allenai/infinigram-api) | [Project Page](https://playground.allenai.org)

### Abstract

We present OLMoTrace, the first system that traces the outputs of language
models back to their full, multi-trillion-token training data in real time.
OLMoTrace finds and shows verbatim matches between segments of language model
output and documents in the training text corpora. Powered by an extended
version of infini-gram (Liu et al., 2024), our system returns tracing results
within a few seconds. OLMoTrace can help users understand the behavior of
language models through the lens of their training data. We showcase how it can
be used to explore fact checking, hallucination, and the creativity of language
models. OLMoTrace is publicly available and fully open-source.

---

## 2. [DDT: Decoupled Diffusion Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.05741)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.05741](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.05741)

**Authors**: Shuai Wang, Zhi Tian, Weilin Huang, Limin Wang

**Published**: 2025-04-08 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by wangshuai

**Upvotes**: 77

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/MCG-NJU/DDT)

### Abstract

Diffusion transformers have demonstrated remarkable generation quality,
albeit requiring longer training iterations and numerous inference steps. In
each denoising step, diffusion transformers encode the noisy inputs to extract
the lower-frequency semantic component and then decode the higher frequency
with identical modules. This scheme creates an inherent optimization dilemma:
encoding low-frequency semantics necessitates reducing high-frequency
components, creating tension between semantic encoding and high-frequency
decoding. To resolve this challenge, we propose a new
\color{ddtD}ecoupled \color{ddtD}iffusion
\color{ddtT}ransformer~(\color{ddtDDT}), with a decoupled
design of a dedicated condition encoder for semantic extraction alongside a
specialized velocity decoder. Our experiments reveal that a more substantial
encoder yields performance improvements as model size increases. For ImageNet
256times256, Our DDT-XL/2 achieves a new state-of-the-art performance of
{1.31 FID}~(nearly 4times faster training convergence compared to previous
diffusion transformers). For ImageNet 512times512, Our DDT-XL/2 achieves a
new state-of-the-art FID of 1.28. Additionally, as a beneficial by-product, our
decoupled architecture enhances inference speed by enabling the sharing
self-condition between adjacent denoising steps. To minimize performance
degradation, we propose a novel statistical dynamic programming approach to
identify optimal sharing strategies.

---

## 3. [Missing Premise exacerbates Overthinking: Are Reasoning Models losing
  Critical Thinking Skill?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.06514)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.06514](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.06514)

**Authors**: Chenrui Fan, Ming Li, Lichao Sun, Tianyi Zhou

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Tianyi Zhou

**Upvotes**: 39

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/tianyi-lab/MiP-Overthinking)

### Abstract

We find that the response length of reasoning LLMs, whether trained by
reinforcement learning or supervised learning, drastically increases for
ill-posed questions with missing premises (MiP), ending up with redundant and
ineffective thinking. This newly introduced scenario exacerbates the general
overthinking issue to a large extent, which we name as the MiP-Overthinking.
Such failures are against the ``test-time scaling law'' but have been widely
observed on multiple datasets we curated with MiP, indicating the harm of cheap
overthinking and a lack of critical thinking. Surprisingly, LLMs not
specifically trained for reasoning exhibit much better performance on the MiP
scenario, producing much shorter responses that quickly identify ill-posed
queries. This implies a critical flaw of the current training recipe for
reasoning LLMs, which does not encourage efficient thinking adequately, leading
to the abuse of thinking patterns. To further investigate the reasons behind
such failures, we conduct fine-grained analyses of the reasoning length,
overthinking patterns, and location of critical thinking on different types of
LLMs. Moreover, our extended ablation study reveals that the overthinking is
contagious through the distillation of reasoning models' responses. These
results improve the understanding of overthinking and shed novel insights into
mitigating the problem.

---

## 4. [FantasyTalking: Realistic Talking Portrait Generation via Coherent
  Motion Synthesis](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.04842)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.04842](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.04842)

**Authors**: Mengchao Wang, Qiang Wang, Fan Jiang, Yaqi Fan, Yunpeng Zhang, Yonggang Qi, Kun Zhao, Mu Xu

**Published**: 2025-04-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by wangqiang

**Upvotes**: 35

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Fantasy-AMAP/fantasy-talking) | [Project Page](https://fantasy-amap.github.io/fantasy-talking/)

### Abstract

Creating a realistic animatable avatar from a single static portrait remains
challenging. Existing approaches often struggle to capture subtle facial
expressions, the associated global body movements, and the dynamic background.
To address these limitations, we propose a novel framework that leverages a
pretrained video diffusion transformer model to generate high-fidelity,
coherent talking portraits with controllable motion dynamics. At the core of
our work is a dual-stage audio-visual alignment strategy. In the first stage,
we employ a clip-level training scheme to establish coherent global motion by
aligning audio-driven dynamics across the entire scene, including the reference
portrait, contextual objects, and background. In the second stage, we refine
lip movements at the frame level using a lip-tracing mask, ensuring precise
synchronization with audio signals. To preserve identity without compromising
motion flexibility, we replace the commonly used reference network with a
facial-focused cross-attention module that effectively maintains facial
consistency throughout the video. Furthermore, we integrate a motion intensity
modulation module that explicitly controls expression and body motion
intensity, enabling controllable manipulation of portrait movements beyond mere
lip motion. Extensive experimental results show that our proposed approach
achieves higher quality with better realism, coherence, motion intensity, and
identity preservation. Ours project page:
https://fantasy-amap.github.io/fantasy-talking/.

---

## 5. [A Unified Agentic Framework for Evaluating Conditional Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07046)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07046](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07046)

**Authors**: Jifang Wang, Xue Yang, Longyue Wang, Zhenran Xu, Yiyu Wang, Yaowei Wang, Weihua Luo, Kaifu Zhang, Baotian Hu, Min Zhang

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Zhenran Xu

**Upvotes**: 30

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/HITsz-TMG/Agentic-CIGEval) | [Project Page](https://x.com/wangly0229/status/1910317936042295737?t=PR7EH5eB_NgTFgSUKZbSvA&s=19)

### Abstract

Conditional image generation has gained significant attention for its ability
to personalize content. However, the field faces challenges in developing
task-agnostic, reliable, and explainable evaluation metrics. This paper
introduces CIGEval, a unified agentic framework for comprehensive evaluation of
conditional image generation tasks. CIGEval utilizes large multimodal models
(LMMs) as its core, integrating a multi-functional toolbox and establishing a
fine-grained evaluation framework. Additionally, we synthesize evaluation
trajectories for fine-tuning, empowering smaller LMMs to autonomously select
appropriate tools and conduct nuanced analyses based on tool outputs.
Experiments across seven prominent conditional image generation tasks
demonstrate that CIGEval (GPT-4o version) achieves a high correlation of 0.4625
with human assessments, closely matching the inter-annotator correlation of
0.47. Moreover, when implemented with 7B open-source LMMs using only 2.3K
training trajectories, CIGEval surpasses the previous GPT-4o-based
state-of-the-art method. Case studies on GPT-4o image generation highlight
CIGEval's capability in identifying subtle issues related to subject
consistency and adherence to control guidance, indicating its great potential
for automating evaluation of image generation tasks with human-level
reliability.

---

## 6. [GenDoP: Auto-regressive Camera Trajectory Generation as a Director of
  Photography](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07083)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07083](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07083)

**Authors**: Mengchen Zhang, Tong Wu, Jing Tan, Ziwei Liu, Gordon Wetzstein, Dahua Lin

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Zhang Mengchen

**Upvotes**: 22

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/3DTopia/GenDoP) | [Project Page](https://kszpxxzmc.github.io/GenDoP/)

### Abstract

Camera trajectory design plays a crucial role in video production, serving as
a fundamental tool for conveying directorial intent and enhancing visual
storytelling. In cinematography, Directors of Photography meticulously craft
camera movements to achieve expressive and intentional framing. However,
existing methods for camera trajectory generation remain limited: Traditional
approaches rely on geometric optimization or handcrafted procedural systems,
while recent learning-based methods often inherit structural biases or lack
textual alignment, constraining creative synthesis. In this work, we introduce
an auto-regressive model inspired by the expertise of Directors of Photography
to generate artistic and expressive camera trajectories. We first introduce
DataDoP, a large-scale multi-modal dataset containing 29K real-world shots with
free-moving camera trajectories, depth maps, and detailed captions in specific
movements, interaction with the scene, and directorial intent. Thanks to the
comprehensive and diverse database, we further train an auto-regressive,
decoder-only Transformer for high-quality, context-aware camera movement
generation based on text guidance and RGBD inputs, named GenDoP. Extensive
experiments demonstrate that compared to existing methods, GenDoP offers better
controllability, finer-grained trajectory adjustments, and higher motion
stability. We believe our approach establishes a new standard for
learning-based cinematography, paving the way for future advancements in camera
control and filmmaking. Our project website:
https://kszpxxzmc.github.io/GenDoP/.

---

## 7. [A Sober Look at Progress in Language Model Reasoning: Pitfalls and Paths
  to Reproducibility](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07086)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07086](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07086)

**Authors**: Andreas Hochlehnert, Hardik Bhatnagar, Vishaal Udandarao, Samuel Albanie, Ameya Prabhu, Matthias Bethge

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Ameya Prabhu

**Upvotes**: 21

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/bethgelab/sober-reasoning) | [Project Page](https://bethgelab.github.io/sober-reasoning/)

### Abstract

Reasoning has emerged as the next major frontier for language models (LMs),
with rapid advances from both academic and industrial labs. However, this
progress often outpaces methodological rigor, with many evaluations relying on
benchmarking practices that lack transparency, robustness, or statistical
grounding. In this work, we conduct a comprehensive empirical study and find
that current mathematical reasoning benchmarks are highly sensitive to subtle
implementation choices - including decoding parameters, random seeds, prompt
formatting, and even hardware and software-framework configurations.
Performance gains reported in recent studies frequently hinge on unclear
comparisons or unreported sources of variance. To address these issues, we
propose a standardized evaluation framework with clearly defined best practices
and reporting standards. Using this framework, we reassess recent methods and
find that reinforcement learning (RL) approaches yield only modest improvements
- far below prior claims - and are prone to overfitting, especially on
small-scale benchmarks like AIME24. In contrast, supervised finetuning (SFT)
methods show consistently stronger generalization. To foster reproducibility,
we release all code, prompts, and model outputs, for reasoning benchmarks,
establishing more rigorous foundations for future work.

---

## 8. [OmniCaptioner: One Captioner to Rule Them All](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07089)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07089](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07089)

**Authors**: Yiting Lu, Jiakang Yuan, Zhen Li, Shitian Zhao, Qi Qin, Xinyue Li, Le Zhuo, Licheng Wen, Dongyang Liu, Yuewen Cao, Xiangchao Yan, Xin Li, Botian Shi, Tao Chen, Zhibo Chen, Lei Bai, Bo Zhang, Peng Gao

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by yiting lu

**Upvotes**: 20

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/alpha-innovator/omnicaptioner) | [Project Page](https://alpha-innovator.github.io/OmniCaptioner-project-page)

### Abstract

We propose OmniCaptioner, a versatile visual captioning framework for
generating fine-grained textual descriptions across a wide variety of visual
domains. Unlike prior methods limited to specific image types (e.g., natural
images or geometric visuals), our framework provides a unified solution for
captioning natural images, visual text (e.g., posters, UIs, textbooks), and
structured visuals (e.g., documents, tables, charts). By converting low-level
pixel information into semantically rich textual representations, our framework
bridges the gap between visual and textual modalities. Our results highlight
three key advantages: (i) Enhanced Visual Reasoning with LLMs, where
long-context captions of visual modalities empower LLMs, particularly the
DeepSeek-R1 series, to reason effectively in multimodal scenarios; (ii)
Improved Image Generation, where detailed captions improve tasks like
text-to-image generation and image transformation; and (iii) Efficient
Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT), which enables faster convergence with less data.
We believe the versatility and adaptability of OmniCaptioner can offer a new
perspective for bridging the gap between language and visual modalities.

---

## 9. [Self-Steering Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07081)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07081](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07081)

**Authors**: Gabriel Grand, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, Vikash K. Mansinghka, Alexander K. Lew, Jacob Andreas

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

While test-time reasoning enables language models to tackle complex tasks,
searching or planning in natural language can be slow, costly, and error-prone.
But even when LMs struggle to emulate the precise reasoning steps needed to
solve a problem, they often excel at describing its abstract structure--both
how to verify solutions and how to search for them. This paper introduces
DisCIPL, a method for "self-steering" LMs where a Planner model generates a
task-specific inference program that is executed by a population of Follower
models. Our approach equips LMs with the ability to write recursive search
procedures that guide LM inference, enabling new forms of verifiable and
efficient reasoning. When instantiated with a small Follower (e.g.,
Llama-3.2-1B), DisCIPL matches (and sometimes outperforms) much larger models,
including GPT-4o and o1, on challenging constrained generation tasks. In
decoupling planning from execution, our work opens up a design space of
highly-parallelized Monte Carlo inference strategies that outperform standard
best-of-N sampling, require no finetuning, and can be implemented automatically
by existing LMs.

---

## 10. [Caption Anything in Video: Fine-grained Object-centric Captioning via
  Spatiotemporal Multimodal Prompting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.05541)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.05541](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.05541)

**Authors**: Yunlong Tang, Jing Bi, Chao Huang, Susan Liang, Daiki Shimada, Hang Hua, Yunzhong Xiao, Yizhi Song, Pinxin Liu, Mingqian Feng, Junjia Guo, Zhuo Liu, Luchuan Song, Ali Vosoughi, Jinxi He, Liu He, Zeliang Zhang, Jiebo Luo, Chenliang Xu

**Published**: 2025-04-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Yolo Y. Tang

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yunlong10/CAT-V)

### Abstract

We present CAT-V (Caption AnyThing in Video), a training-free framework for
fine-grained object-centric video captioning that enables detailed descriptions
of user-selected objects through time. CAT-V integrates three key components: a
Segmenter based on SAMURAI for precise object segmentation across frames, a
Temporal Analyzer powered by TRACE-Uni for accurate event boundary detection
and temporal analysis, and a Captioner using InternVL-2.5 for generating
detailed object-centric descriptions. Through spatiotemporal visual prompts and
chain-of-thought reasoning, our framework generates detailed, temporally-aware
descriptions of objects' attributes, actions, statuses, interactions, and
environmental contexts without requiring additional training data. CAT-V
supports flexible user interactions through various visual prompts (points,
bounding boxes, and irregular regions) and maintains temporal sensitivity by
tracking object states and interactions across different time segments. Our
approach addresses limitations of existing video captioning methods, which
either produce overly abstract descriptions or lack object-level precision,
enabling fine-grained, object-specific descriptions while maintaining temporal
coherence and spatial accuracy. The GitHub repository for this project is
available at https://github.com/yunlong10/CAT-V

---

## 11. [VideoChat-R1: Enhancing Spatio-Temporal Perception via Reinforcement
  Fine-Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.06958)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.06958](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.06958)

**Authors**: Xinhao Li, Ziang Yan, Desen Meng, Lu Dong, Xiangyu Zeng, Yinan He, Yali Wang, Yu Qiao, Yi Wang, Limin Wang

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opengvlab/videochat-r1)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in reinforcement learning have significantly advanced the
reasoning capabilities of multimodal large language models (MLLMs). While
approaches such as Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) and rule-based
reward mechanisms demonstrate promise in text and image domains, their
application to video understanding remains limited. This paper presents a
systematic exploration of Reinforcement Fine-Tuning (RFT) with GRPO for video
MLLMs, aiming to enhance spatio-temporal perception while maintaining general
capabilities. Our experiments reveal that RFT is highly data-efficient for
task-specific improvements. Through multi-task RFT on spatio-temporal
perception objectives with limited samples, we develop VideoChat-R1, a powerful
video MLLM that achieves state-of-the-art performance on spatio-temporal
perception tasks without sacrificing chat ability, while exhibiting emerging
spatio-temporal reasoning abilities. Compared to Qwen2.5-VL-7B, VideoChat-R1
boosts performance several-fold in tasks like temporal grounding (+31.8) and
object tracking (+31.2). Additionally, it significantly improves on general QA
benchmarks such as VideoMME (+0.9), MVBench (+1.0), and Perception Test (+0.9).
Our findings underscore the potential of RFT for specialized task enhancement
of Video MLLMs. We hope our work offers valuable insights for future RL
research in video MLLMs.

---

## 12. [WildGS-SLAM: Monocular Gaussian Splatting SLAM in Dynamic Environments](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.03886)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.03886](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.03886)

**Authors**: Jianhao Zheng, Zihan Zhu, Valentin Bieri, Marc Pollefeys, Songyou Peng, Iro Armeni

**Published**: 2025-04-04 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/GradientSpaces/WildGS-SLAM) | [Project Page](https://wildgs-slam.github.io/)

### Abstract

We present WildGS-SLAM, a robust and efficient monocular RGB SLAM system
designed to handle dynamic environments by leveraging uncertainty-aware
geometric mapping. Unlike traditional SLAM systems, which assume static scenes,
our approach integrates depth and uncertainty information to enhance tracking,
mapping, and rendering performance in the presence of moving objects. We
introduce an uncertainty map, predicted by a shallow multi-layer perceptron and
DINOv2 features, to guide dynamic object removal during both tracking and
mapping. This uncertainty map enhances dense bundle adjustment and Gaussian map
optimization, improving reconstruction accuracy. Our system is evaluated on
multiple datasets and demonstrates artifact-free view synthesis. Results
showcase WildGS-SLAM's superior performance in dynamic environments compared to
state-of-the-art methods.

---

## 13. [DiTaiListener: Controllable High Fidelity Listener Video Generation with
  Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.04010)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.04010](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.04010)

**Authors**: Maksim Siniukov, Di Chang, Minh Tran, Hongkun Gong, Ashutosh Chaubey, Mohammad Soleymani

**Published**: 2025-04-05 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Di Chang

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [Project Page](https://cv.maxi.su/DiTaiListener/)

### Abstract

Generating naturalistic and nuanced listener motions for extended
interactions remains an open problem. Existing methods often rely on
low-dimensional motion codes for facial behavior generation followed by
photorealistic rendering, limiting both visual fidelity and expressive
richness. To address these challenges, we introduce DiTaiListener, powered by a
video diffusion model with multimodal conditions. Our approach first generates
short segments of listener responses conditioned on the speaker's speech and
facial motions with DiTaiListener-Gen. It then refines the transitional frames
via DiTaiListener-Edit for a seamless transition. Specifically,
DiTaiListener-Gen adapts a Diffusion Transformer (DiT) for the task of listener
head portrait generation by introducing a Causal Temporal Multimodal Adapter
(CTM-Adapter) to process speakers' auditory and visual cues. CTM-Adapter
integrates speakers' input in a causal manner into the video generation process
to ensure temporally coherent listener responses. For long-form video
generation, we introduce DiTaiListener-Edit, a transition refinement
video-to-video diffusion model. The model fuses video segments into smooth and
continuous videos, ensuring temporal consistency in facial expressions and
image quality when merging short video segments produced by DiTaiListener-Gen.
Quantitatively, DiTaiListener achieves the state-of-the-art performance on
benchmark datasets in both photorealism (+73.8% in FID on RealTalk) and motion
representation (+6.1% in FD metric on VICO) spaces. User studies confirm the
superior performance of DiTaiListener, with the model being the clear
preference in terms of feedback, diversity, and smoothness, outperforming
competitors by a significant margin.

---

## 14. [Masked Scene Modeling: Narrowing the Gap Between Supervised and
  Self-Supervised Learning in 3D Scene Understanding](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.06719)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.06719](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.06719)

**Authors**: Pedro Hermosilla, Christian Stippel, Leon Sick

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Pedro Hermosilla

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/phermosilla/msm) | [Project Page](https://phermosilla.github.io/msm/)

### Abstract

Self-supervised learning has transformed 2D computer vision by enabling
models trained on large, unannotated datasets to provide versatile
off-the-shelf features that perform similarly to models trained with labels.
However, in 3D scene understanding, self-supervised methods are typically only
used as a weight initialization step for task-specific fine-tuning, limiting
their utility for general-purpose feature extraction. This paper addresses this
shortcoming by proposing a robust evaluation protocol specifically designed to
assess the quality of self-supervised features for 3D scene understanding. Our
protocol uses multi-resolution feature sampling of hierarchical models to
create rich point-level representations that capture the semantic capabilities
of the model and, hence, are suitable for evaluation with linear probing and
nearest-neighbor methods. Furthermore, we introduce the first self-supervised
model that performs similarly to supervised models when only off-the-shelf
features are used in a linear probing setup. In particular, our model is
trained natively in 3D with a novel self-supervised approach based on a Masked
Scene Modeling objective, which reconstructs deep features of masked patches in
a bottom-up manner and is specifically tailored to hierarchical 3D models. Our
experiments not only demonstrate that our method achieves competitive
performance to supervised models, but also surpasses existing self-supervised
approaches by a large margin. The model and training code can be found at our
Github repository (https://github.com/phermosilla/msm).

---

## 15. [Are We Done with Object-Centric Learning?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07092)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07092](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07092)

**Authors**: Alexander Rubinstein, Ameya Prabhu, Matthias Bethge, Seong Joon Oh

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Ameya Prabhu

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/AlexanderRubinstein/OCCAM) | [Project Page](https://alexanderrubinstein.github.io/are-we-done-with-ocl/)

### Abstract

Object-centric learning (OCL) seeks to learn representations that only encode
an object, isolated from other objects or background cues in a scene. This
approach underpins various aims, including out-of-distribution (OOD)
generalization, sample-efficient composition, and modeling of structured
environments. Most research has focused on developing unsupervised mechanisms
that separate objects into discrete slots in the representation space,
evaluated using unsupervised object discovery. However, with recent
sample-efficient segmentation models, we can separate objects in the pixel
space and encode them independently. This achieves remarkable zero-shot
performance on OOD object discovery benchmarks, is scalable to foundation
models, and can handle a variable number of slots out-of-the-box. Hence, the
goal of OCL methods to obtain object-centric representations has been largely
achieved. Despite this progress, a key question remains: How does the ability
to separate objects within a scene contribute to broader OCL objectives, such
as OOD generalization? We address this by investigating the OOD generalization
challenge caused by spurious background cues through the lens of OCL. We
propose a novel, training-free probe called Object-Centric
Classification with Applied Masks (OCCAM), demonstrating that
segmentation-based encoding of individual objects significantly outperforms
slot-based OCL methods. However, challenges in real-world applications remain.
We provide the toolbox for the OCL community to use scalable object-centric
representations, and focus on practical applications and fundamental questions,
such as understanding object perception in human cognition. Our code is
available https://github.com/AlexanderRubinstein/OCCAM{here}.

---

## 16. [RobustDexGrasp: Robust Dexterous Grasping of General Objects from
  Single-view Perception](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.05287)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.05287](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.05287)

**Authors**: Hui Zhang, Zijian Wu, Linyi Huang, Sammy Christen, Jie Song

**Published**: 2025-04-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Hui Zhang

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/zdchan/RobustDexGrasp) | [Project Page](https://zdchan.github.io/Robust_DexGrasp/)

### Abstract

Robust grasping of various objects from single-view perception is fundamental
for dexterous robots. Previous works often rely on fully observable objects,
expert demonstrations, or static grasping poses, which restrict their
generalization ability and adaptability to external disturbances. In this
paper, we present a reinforcement-learning-based framework that enables
zero-shot dynamic dexterous grasping of a wide range of unseen objects from
single-view perception, while performing adaptive motions to external
disturbances. We utilize a hand-centric object representation for shape feature
extraction that emphasizes interaction-relevant local shapes, enhancing
robustness to shape variance and uncertainty. To enable effective hand
adaptation to disturbances with limited observations, we propose a mixed
curriculum learning strategy, which first utilizes imitation learning to
distill a policy trained with privileged real-time visual-tactile feedback, and
gradually transfers to reinforcement learning to learn adaptive motions under
disturbances caused by observation noises and dynamic randomization. Our
experiments demonstrate strong generalization in grasping unseen objects with
random poses, achieving success rates of 97.0% across 247,786 simulated objects
and 94.6% across 512 real objects. We also demonstrate the robustness of our
method to various disturbances, including unobserved object movement and
external forces, through both quantitative and qualitative evaluations. Project
Page: https://zdchan.github.io/Robust_DexGrasp/

---

## 17. [Pretraining Language Models for Diachronic Linguistic Change Discovery](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.05523)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.05523](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.05523)

**Authors**: Elisabeth Fittschen, Sabrina Li, Tom Lippincott, Leshem Choshen, Craig Messner

**Published**: 2025-04-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Leshem Choshen

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/comp-int-hum/historical-perspectival-lm) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/Hplm)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have shown potential as tools for scientific
discovery. This has engendered growing interest in their use in humanistic
disciplines, such as historical linguistics and literary studies. These fields
often construct arguments on the basis of delineations like genre, or more
inflexibly, time period. Although efforts have been made to restrict inference
to specific domains via fine-tuning or model editing, we posit that the only
true guarantee is domain-restricted pretraining -- typically, a data- and
compute-expensive proposition.
  We show that efficient pretraining techniques can produce useful models over
corpora too large for easy manual inspection but too small for "typical" LLM
approaches. We employ a novel date-attribution pipeline in order to obtain a
temporally-segmented dataset of five 10-million-word slices. We train two
corresponding five-model batteries over these corpus segments, efficient
pretraining and Llama3-8B parameter efficiently finetuned.
  We find that the pretrained models are faster to train than the finetuned
baselines and that they better respect the historical divisions of our corpus.
Emphasizing speed and precision over a-historical comprehensiveness enables a
number of novel approaches to hypothesis discovery and testing in our target
fields. Taking up diachronic linguistics as a testbed, we show that our method
enables the detection of a diverse set of phenomena, including en masse lexical
change, non-lexical (grammatical and morphological) change, and word sense
introduction/obsolescence. We provide a ready-to-use pipeline that allows
extension of our approach to other target fields with only minimal adaptation.

---

## 18. [RuOpinionNE-2024: Extraction of Opinion Tuples from Russian News Texts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.06947)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.06947](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.06947)

**Authors**: Natalia Loukachevitch, Natalia Tkachenko, Anna Lapanitsyna, Mikhail Tikhomirov, Nicolay Rusnachenko

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Nicolay Rusnachenko

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dialogue-evaluation/RuOpinionNE-2024) | [Project Page](https://nicolayr.com/#ruopinionne2024)

### Abstract

In this paper, we introduce the Dialogue Evaluation shared task on extraction
of structured opinions from Russian news texts. The task of the contest is to
extract opinion tuples for a given sentence; the tuples are composed of a
sentiment holder, its target, an expression and sentiment from the holder to
the target. In total, the task received more than 100 submissions. The
participants experimented mainly with large language models in zero-shot,
few-shot and fine-tuning formats. The best result on the test set was obtained
with fine-tuning of a large language model. We also compared 30 prompts and 11
open source language models with 3-32 billion parameters in the 1-shot and
10-shot settings and found the best models and prompts.

---

## 19. [Fast Controlled Generation from Language Models with Adaptive Weighted
  Rejection Sampling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.05410)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.05410](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.05410)

**Authors**: Benjamin Lipkin, Benjamin LeBrun, Jacob Hoover Vigly, João Loula, David R. MacIver, Li Du, Jason Eisner, Ryan Cotterell, Vikash Mansinghka, Timothy J. O'Donnell, Alexander K. Lew, Tim Vieira

**Published**: 2025-04-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-10 by Ben Lipkin

**Upvotes**: 2

### Abstract

The dominant approach to generating from language models subject to some
constraint is locally constrained decoding (LCD), incrementally sampling tokens
at each time step such that the constraint is never violated. Typically, this
is achieved through token masking: looping over the vocabulary and excluding
non-conforming tokens. There are two important problems with this approach. (i)
Evaluating the constraint on every token can be prohibitively expensive -- LM
vocabularies often exceed 100,000 tokens. (ii) LCD can distort the global
distribution over strings, sampling tokens based only on local information,
even if they lead down dead-end paths. This work introduces a new algorithm
that addresses both these problems. First, to avoid evaluating a constraint on
the full vocabulary at each step of generation, we propose an adaptive
rejection sampling algorithm that typically requires orders of magnitude fewer
constraint evaluations. Second, we show how this algorithm can be extended to
produce low-variance, unbiased estimates of importance weights at a very small
additional cost -- estimates that can be soundly used within previously
proposed sequential Monte Carlo algorithms to correct for the myopic behavior
of local constraint enforcement. Through extensive empirical evaluation in
text-to-SQL, molecular synthesis, goal inference, pattern matching, and JSON
domains, we show that our approach is superior to state-of-the-art baselines,
supporting a broader class of constraints and improving both runtime and
performance. Additional theoretical and empirical analyses show that our
method's runtime efficiency is driven by its dynamic use of computation,
scaling with the divergence between the unconstrained and constrained LM, and
as a consequence, runtime improvements are greater for better models.

---
