# Daily Papers - 2025-04-14

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2025-04-14)

Total papers: 21

---

## 1. [Seaweed-7B: Cost-Effective Training of Video Generation Foundation Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08685)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08685](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08685)

**Authors**: Team Seawead, Ceyuan Yang, Zhijie Lin, Yang Zhao, Shanchuan Lin, Zhibei Ma, Haoyuan Guo, Hao Chen, Lu Qi, Sen Wang, Feng Cheng, Feilong Zuo Xuejiao Zeng, Ziyan Yang, Fangyuan Kong, Zhiwu Qing, Fei Xiao, Meng Wei, Tuyen Hoang, Siyu Zhang, Peihao Zhu, Qi Zhao, Jiangqiao Yan, Liangke Gui, Sheng Bi, Jiashi Li, Yuxi Ren, Rui Wang, Huixia Li, Xuefeng Xiao, Shu Liu, Feng Ling, Heng Zhang, Houmin Wei, Huafeng Kuang, Jerry Duncan, Junda Zhang, Junru Zheng, Li Sun, Manlin Zhang, Renfei Sun, Xiaobin Zhuang, Xiaojie Li, Xin Xia, Xuyan Chi, Yanghua Peng, Yuping Wang, Yuxuan Wang, Zhongkai Zhao, Zhuo Chen, Zuquan Song, Zhenheng Yang, Jiashi Feng, Jianchao Yang, Lu Jiang

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Lu Jiang

**Upvotes**: 130

**Links**: [Project Page](https://seaweed.video/)

### Abstract

This technical report presents a cost-efficient strategy for training a video
generation foundation model. We present a mid-sized research model with
approximately 7 billion parameters (7B) called Seaweed-7B trained from scratch
using 665,000 H100 GPU hours. Despite being trained with moderate computational
resources, Seaweed-7B demonstrates highly competitive performance compared to
contemporary video generation models of much larger size. Design choices are
especially crucial in a resource-constrained setting. This technical report
highlights the key design decisions that enhance the performance of the
medium-sized diffusion model. Empirically, we make two observations: (1)
Seaweed-7B achieves performance comparable to, or even surpasses, larger models
trained on substantially greater GPU resources, and (2) our model, which
exhibits strong generalization ability, can be effectively adapted across a
wide range of downstream applications either by lightweight fine-tuning or
continue training. See the project page at https://seaweed.video/

---

## 2. [GigaTok: Scaling Visual Tokenizers to 3 Billion Parameters for
  Autoregressive Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08736)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08736](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08736)

**Authors**: Tianwei Xiong, Jun Hao Liew, Zilong Huang, Jiashi Feng, Xihui Liu

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Tianwei Xiong

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/SilentView/GigaTok) | [Project Page](https://silentview.github.io/GigaTok/)

### Abstract

In autoregressive (AR) image generation, visual tokenizers compress images
into compact discrete latent tokens, enabling efficient training of downstream
autoregressive models for visual generation via next-token prediction. While
scaling visual tokenizers improves image reconstruction quality, it often
degrades downstream generation quality -- a challenge not adequately addressed
in existing literature. To address this, we introduce GigaTok, the first
approach to simultaneously improve image reconstruction, generation, and
representation learning when scaling visual tokenizers. We identify the growing
complexity of latent space as the key factor behind the reconstruction vs.
generation dilemma. To mitigate this, we propose semantic regularization, which
aligns tokenizer features with semantically consistent features from a
pre-trained visual encoder. This constraint prevents excessive latent space
complexity during scaling, yielding consistent improvements in both
reconstruction and downstream autoregressive generation. Building on semantic
regularization, we explore three key practices for scaling tokenizers:(1) using
1D tokenizers for better scalability, (2) prioritizing decoder scaling when
expanding both encoder and decoder, and (3) employing entropy loss to stabilize
training for billion-scale tokenizers. By scaling to 3 space billion
parameters, GigaTok achieves state-of-the-art performance in reconstruction,
downstream AR generation, and downstream AR representation quality.

---

## 3. [MineWorld: a Real-Time and Open-Source Interactive World Model on
  Minecraft](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08388)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08388](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08388)

**Authors**: Junliang Guo, Yang Ye, Tianyu He, Haoyu Wu, Yushu Jiang, Tim Pearce, Jiang Bian

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by YSH

**Upvotes**: 42

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/MineWorld) | [Project Page](https://aka.ms/mineworld)

### Abstract

World modeling is a crucial task for enabling intelligent agents to
effectively interact with humans and operate in dynamic environments. In this
work, we propose MineWorld, a real-time interactive world model on Minecraft,
an open-ended sandbox game which has been utilized as a common testbed for
world modeling. MineWorld is driven by a visual-action autoregressive
Transformer, which takes paired game scenes and corresponding actions as input,
and generates consequent new scenes following the actions. Specifically, by
transforming visual game scenes and actions into discrete token ids with an
image tokenizer and an action tokenizer correspondingly, we consist the model
input with the concatenation of the two kinds of ids interleaved. The model is
then trained with next token prediction to learn rich representations of game
states as well as the conditions between states and actions simultaneously. In
inference, we develop a novel parallel decoding algorithm that predicts the
spatial redundant tokens in each frame at the same time, letting models in
different scales generate 4 to 7 frames per second and enabling real-time
interactions with game players. In evaluation, we propose new metrics to assess
not only visual quality but also the action following capacity when generating
new scenes, which is crucial for a world model. Our comprehensive evaluation
shows the efficacy of MineWorld, outperforming SoTA open-sourced diffusion
based world models significantly. The code and model have been released.

---

## 4. [VLM-R1: A Stable and Generalizable R1-style Large Vision-Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07615)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07615](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07615)

**Authors**: Haozhan Shen, Peng Liu, Jingcheng Li, Chunxin Fang, Yibo Ma, Jiajia Liao, Qiaoli Shen, Zilun Zhang, Kangjia Zhao, Qianqian Zhang, Ruochen Xu, Tiancheng Zhao

**Published**: 2025-04-10 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Tony Zhao

**Upvotes**: 35

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/om-ai-lab/VLM-R1)

### Abstract

Recently DeepSeek R1 has shown that reinforcement learning (RL) can
substantially improve the reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models
(LLMs) through a simple yet effective design. The core of R1 lies in its
rule-based reward formulation, which leverages tasks with deterministic
ground-truth answers to enable precise and stable reward computation. In the
visual domain, we similarly observe that a wide range of visual understanding
tasks are inherently equipped with well-defined ground-truth annotations. This
property makes them naturally compatible with rule-based reward mechanisms.
Motivated by this observation, we investigate the extension of R1-style
reinforcement learning to Vision-Language Models (VLMs), aiming to enhance
their visual reasoning capabilities. To this end, we develop VLM-R1, a
dedicated framework designed to harness RL for improving VLMs' performance on
general vision-language tasks. Using this framework, we further explore the
feasibility of applying RL to visual domain. Experimental results indicate that
the RL-based model not only delivers competitive performance on visual
understanding tasks but also surpasses Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) in
generalization ability. Furthermore, we conduct comprehensive ablation studies
that uncover a series of noteworthy insights, including the presence of reward
hacking in object detection, the emergence of the "OD aha moment", the impact
of training data quality, and the scaling behavior of RL across different model
sizes. Through these analyses, we aim to deepen the understanding of how
reinforcement learning enhances the capabilities of vision-language models, and
we hope our findings and open-source contributions will support continued
progress in the vision-language RL community. Our code and model are available
at https://github.com/om-ai-lab/VLM-R1

---

## 5. [SQL-R1: Training Natural Language to SQL Reasoning Model By
  Reinforcement Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08600)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08600](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08600)

**Authors**: Peixian Ma, Xialie Zhuang, Chengjin Xu, Xuhui Jiang, Ran Chen, Jian Guo

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Lie

**Upvotes**: 33

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/IDEA-FinAI/SQL-R1) | [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/collections/MPX0222forHF/sql-r1-682ae0b3483ed07ae622d8a4)

### Abstract

Natural Language to SQL (NL2SQL) enables intuitive interactions with
databases by transforming natural language queries into structured SQL
statements. Despite recent advancements in enhancing human-computer interaction
within database applications, significant challenges persist, particularly
regarding the inference performance in complex scenarios involving multi-table
joins and nested queries. Current methodologies primarily utilize supervised
fine-tuning (SFT) to train the NL2SQL model, which may limit adaptability and
interpretability in new environments (e.g., finance and healthcare). In order
to enhance the reasoning performance of the NL2SQL model in the above complex
situations, we introduce SQL-R1, a novel NL2SQL reasoning model trained by the
reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms. We design a specialized RL-based reward
function tailored for NL2SQL tasks and discussed the impact of cold start on
the effectiveness of intensive training. In addition, we achieve competitive
accuracy using only a tiny amount of synthetic NL2SQL data for augmented
training and further explore data engineering for RL. In existing experiments,
SQL-R1 achieves execution accuracy of 88.6% and 66.6% on the benchmark Spider
and BIRD, respectively, only using the 7B base model.

---

## 6. [ZipIR: Latent Pyramid Diffusion Transformer for High-Resolution Image
  Restoration](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08591)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08591](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08591)

**Authors**: Yongsheng Yu, Haitian Zheng, Zhifei Zhang, Jianming Zhang, Yuqian Zhou, Connelly Barnes, Yuchen Liu, Wei Xiong, Zhe Lin, Jiebo Luo

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Yongsheng Yu

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Recent progress in generative models has significantly improved image
restoration capabilities, particularly through powerful diffusion models that
offer remarkable recovery of semantic details and local fidelity. However,
deploying these models at ultra-high resolutions faces a critical trade-off
between quality and efficiency due to the computational demands of long-range
attention mechanisms. To address this, we introduce ZipIR, a novel framework
that enhances efficiency, scalability, and long-range modeling for high-res
image restoration. ZipIR employs a highly compressed latent representation that
compresses image 32x, effectively reducing the number of spatial tokens, and
enabling the use of high-capacity models like the Diffusion Transformer (DiT).
Toward this goal, we propose a Latent Pyramid VAE (LP-VAE) design that
structures the latent space into sub-bands to ease diffusion training. Trained
on full images up to 2K resolution, ZipIR surpasses existing diffusion-based
methods, offering unmatched speed and quality in restoring high-resolution
images from severely degraded inputs.

---

## 7. [PixelFlow: Pixel-Space Generative Models with Flow](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07963)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07963](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07963)

**Authors**: Shoufa Chen, Chongjian Ge, Shilong Zhang, Peize Sun, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2025-04-10 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Shoufa Chen

**Upvotes**: 18

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ShoufaChen/PixelFlow)

### Abstract

We present PixelFlow, a family of image generation models that operate
directly in the raw pixel space, in contrast to the predominant latent-space
models. This approach simplifies the image generation process by eliminating
the need for a pre-trained Variational Autoencoder (VAE) and enabling the whole
model end-to-end trainable. Through efficient cascade flow modeling, PixelFlow
achieves affordable computation cost in pixel space. It achieves an FID of 1.98
on 256times256 ImageNet class-conditional image generation benchmark. The
qualitative text-to-image results demonstrate that PixelFlow excels in image
quality, artistry, and semantic control. We hope this new paradigm will inspire
and open up new opportunities for next-generation visual generation models.
Code and models are available at https://github.com/ShoufaChen/PixelFlow.

---

## 8. [Visual Chronicles: Using Multimodal LLMs to Analyze Massive Collections
  of Images](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08727)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08727](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08727)

**Authors**: Boyang Deng, Songyou Peng, Kyle Genova, Gordon Wetzstein, Noah Snavely, Leonidas Guibas, Thomas Funkhouser

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

**Links**: [Project Page](https://boyangdeng.com/visual-chronicles)

### Abstract

We present a system using Multimodal LLMs (MLLMs) to analyze a large database
with tens of millions of images captured at different times, with the aim of
discovering patterns in temporal changes. Specifically, we aim to capture
frequent co-occurring changes ("trends") across a city over a certain period.
Unlike previous visual analyses, our analysis answers open-ended queries (e.g.,
"what are the frequent types of changes in the city?") without any
predetermined target subjects or training labels. These properties cast prior
learning-based or unsupervised visual analysis tools unsuitable. We identify
MLLMs as a novel tool for their open-ended semantic understanding capabilities.
Yet, our datasets are four orders of magnitude too large for an MLLM to ingest
as context. So we introduce a bottom-up procedure that decomposes the massive
visual analysis problem into more tractable sub-problems. We carefully design
MLLM-based solutions to each sub-problem. During experiments and ablation
studies with our system, we find it significantly outperforms baselines and is
able to discover interesting trends from images captured in large cities (e.g.,
"addition of outdoor dining,", "overpass was painted blue," etc.). See more
results and interactive demos at https://boyangdeng.com/visual-chronicles.

---

## 9. [Pangu Ultra: Pushing the Limits of Dense Large Language Models on Ascend
  NPUs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07866)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07866](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07866)

**Authors**: Yichun Yin, Wenyong Huang, Kaikai Song, Yehui Tang, Xueyu Wu, Wei Guo, Peng Guo, Yaoyuan Wang, Xiaojun Meng, Yasheng Wang, Dong Li, Can Chen, Dandan Tu, Yin Li, Fisher Yu, Ruiming Tang, Yunhe Wang, Baojun Wang, Bin Wang, Bo Wang, Boxiao Liu, Changzheng Zhang, Duyu Tang, Fei Mi, Hui Jin, Jiansheng Wei, Jiarui Qin, Jinpeng Li, Jun Zhao, Liqun Deng, Lin Li, Minghui Xu, Naifu Zhang, Nianzu Zheng, Qiang Li, Rongju Ruan, Shengjun Cheng, Tianyu Guo, Wei He, Wei Li, Weiwen Liu, Wulong Liu, Xinyi Dai, Yonghan Dong, Yu Pan, Yue Li, Yufei Wang, Yujun Li, Yunsheng Ni, Zhe Liu, Zhenhe Zhang, Zhicheng Liu

**Published**: 2025-04-10 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Adina Yakefu

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

We present Pangu Ultra, a Large Language Model (LLM) with 135 billion
parameters and dense Transformer modules trained on Ascend Neural Processing
Units (NPUs). Although the field of LLM has been witnessing unprecedented
advances in pushing the scale and capability of LLM in recent years, training
such a large-scale model still involves significant optimization and system
challenges. To stabilize the training process, we propose depth-scaled sandwich
normalization, which effectively eliminates loss spikes during the training
process of deep models. We pre-train our model on 13.2 trillion diverse and
high-quality tokens and further enhance its reasoning capabilities during
post-training. To perform such large-scale training efficiently, we utilize
8,192 Ascend NPUs with a series of system optimizations. Evaluations on
multiple diverse benchmarks indicate that Pangu Ultra significantly advances
the state-of-the-art capabilities of dense LLMs such as Llama 405B and Mistral
Large 2, and even achieves competitive results with DeepSeek-R1, whose sparse
model structure contains much more parameters. Our exploration demonstrates
that Ascend NPUs are capable of efficiently and effectively training dense
models with more than 100 billion parameters. Our model and system will be
available for our commercial customers.

---

## 10. [FlexIP: Dynamic Control of Preservation and Personality for Customized
  Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07405)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07405](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07405)

**Authors**: Linyan Huang, Haonan Lin, Yanning Zhou, Kaiwen Xiao

**Published**: 2025-04-10 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by YSH

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [Project Page](https://flexip-tech.github.io/flexip)

### Abstract

With the rapid advancement of 2D generative models, preserving subject
identity while enabling diverse editing has emerged as a critical research
focus. Existing methods typically face inherent trade-offs between identity
preservation and personalized manipulation. We introduce FlexIP, a novel
framework that decouples these objectives through two dedicated components: a
Personalization Adapter for stylistic manipulation and a Preservation Adapter
for identity maintenance. By explicitly injecting both control mechanisms into
the generative model, our framework enables flexible parameterized control
during inference through dynamic tuning of the weight adapter. Experimental
results demonstrate that our approach breaks through the performance
limitations of conventional methods, achieving superior identity preservation
while supporting more diverse personalized generation capabilities (Project
Page: https://flexip-tech.github.io/flexip/).

---

## 11. [Do PhD-level LLMs Truly Grasp Elementary Addition? Probing Rule Learning
  vs. Memorization in Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.05262)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.05262](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.05262)

**Authors**: Yang Yan, Yu Lu, Renjun Xu, Zhenzhong Lan

**Published**: 2025-04-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by ZhenzhongLan

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kuri-leo/llm-arithmetic-diagnostic)

### Abstract

Despite high benchmark scores, Large Language Models (LLMs) often fail simple
problem, raising a critical question: Do LLMs learn mathematical principles or
merely memorize patterns? Rather than designing increasingly complex benchmarks
like recent works, we investigate this using elementary two-integer addition
(0 to 2^{64}), probing two core properties: commutativity (A+B=B+A) and
compositional generalization (via isomorphic symbolic mappings, e.g., 7
rightarrow y). While state-of-the-art LLMs achieve 73.8-99.8\% accuracy on
numerical addition, performance collapses to leq7.5\% under symbolic
mapping, indicating failure to generalize learned rules. Non-monotonic
performance scaling with digit count and frequent commutativity violations
(over 1,700 cases of A+B neq B+A) further support this. Explicitly providing
addition rules degrades performance by 81.2\% on average, while
self-explanation maintains baseline accuracy, suggesting LLM arithmetic
processing is misaligned with human-defined principles. Our findings indicate
current LLMs rely on memory pattern over genuine rule learning, highlighting
architectural limitations and the need for new approaches to achieve true
mathematical reasoning.

---

## 12. [In-2-4D: Inbetweening from Two Single-View Images to 4D Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08366)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08366](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08366)

**Authors**: Sauradip Nag, Daniel Cohen-Or, Hao Zhang, Ali Mahdavi-Amiri

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Sauradip Nag

**Upvotes**: 10

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/sauradip/In-2-4D) | [Project Page](https://in-2-4d.github.io/)

### Abstract

We propose a new problem, In-2-4D, for generative 4D (i.e., 3D + motion)
inbetweening from a minimalistic input setting: two single-view images
capturing an object in two distinct motion states. Given two images
representing the start and end states of an object in motion, our goal is to
generate and reconstruct the motion in 4D. We utilize a video interpolation
model to predict the motion, but large frame-to-frame motions can lead to
ambiguous interpretations. To overcome this, we employ a hierarchical approach
to identify keyframes that are visually close to the input states and show
significant motion, then generate smooth fragments between them. For each
fragment, we construct the 3D representation of the keyframe using Gaussian
Splatting. The temporal frames within the fragment guide the motion, enabling
their transformation into dynamic Gaussians through a deformation field. To
improve temporal consistency and refine 3D motion, we expand the self-attention
of multi-view diffusion across timesteps and apply rigid transformation
regularization. Finally, we merge the independently generated 3D motion
segments by interpolating boundary deformation fields and optimizing them to
align with the guiding video, ensuring smooth and flicker-free transitions.
Through extensive qualitative and quantitiave experiments as well as a user
study, we show the effectiveness of our method and its components. The project
page is available at https://in-2-4d.github.io/

---

## 13. [ModernBERT or DeBERTaV3? Examining Architecture and Data Influence on
  Transformer Encoder Models Performance](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08716)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08716](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08716)

**Authors**: Wissam Antoun, Benoît Sagot, Djamé Seddah

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Stefan Schweter

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [Project Page](https://huggingface.co/collections/almanach/moderncamembert-67f7e6d85ede5f7cfc1ce012)

### Abstract

Pretrained transformer-encoder models like DeBERTaV3 and ModernBERT introduce
architectural advancements aimed at improving efficiency and performance.
Although the authors of ModernBERT report improved performance over DeBERTaV3
on several benchmarks, the lack of disclosed training data and the absence of
comparisons using a shared dataset make it difficult to determine whether these
gains are due to architectural improvements or differences in training data. In
this work, we conduct a controlled study by pretraining ModernBERT on the same
dataset as CamemBERTaV2, a DeBERTaV3 French model, isolating the effect of
model design. Our results show that the previous model generation remains
superior in sample efficiency and overall benchmark performance, with
ModernBERT's primary advantage being faster training and inference speed.
However, the new proposed model still provides meaningful architectural
improvements compared to earlier models such as BERT and RoBERTa. Additionally,
we observe that high-quality pre-training data accelerates convergence but does
not significantly improve final performance, suggesting potential benchmark
saturation. These findings show the importance of disentangling pretraining
data from architectural innovations when evaluating transformer models.

---

## 14. [CoRAG: Collaborative Retrieval-Augmented Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.01883)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.01883](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.01883)

**Authors**: Aashiq Muhamed, Mona Diab, Virginia Smith

**Published**: 2025-04-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Aashiq Muhamed

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aashiqmuhamed/CoRAG)

### Abstract

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) models excel in knowledge-intensive
tasks, especially under few-shot learning constraints. We introduce CoRAG, a
framework extending RAG to collaborative settings, where clients jointly train
a shared model using a collaborative passage store. To evaluate CoRAG, we
introduce CRAB, a benchmark for collaborative homogeneous open-domain question
answering. Our experiments demonstrate that CoRAG consistently outperforms both
parametric collaborative learning methods and locally trained RAG models in
low-resource scenarios. Further analysis reveals the critical importance of
relevant passages within the shared store, the surprising benefits of
incorporating irrelevant passages, and the potential for hard negatives to
negatively impact performance. This introduces a novel consideration in
collaborative RAG: the trade-off between leveraging a collectively enriched
knowledge base and the potential risk of incorporating detrimental passages
from other clients. Our findings underscore the viability of CoRAG, while also
highlighting key design challenges and promising avenues for future research.

---

## 15. [Training-free Guidance in Text-to-Video Generation via Multimodal
  Planning and Structured Noise Initialization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08641)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08641](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08641)

**Authors**: Jialu Li, Shoubin Yu, Han Lin, Jaemin Cho, Jaehong Yoon, Mohit Bansal

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Jialu Li

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jialuli-luka/Video-MSG) | [Project Page](https://video-msg.github.io/)

### Abstract

Recent advancements in text-to-video (T2V) diffusion models have
significantly enhanced the visual quality of the generated videos. However,
even recent T2V models find it challenging to follow text descriptions
accurately, especially when the prompt requires accurate control of spatial
layouts or object trajectories. A recent line of research uses layout guidance
for T2V models that require fine-tuning or iterative manipulation of the
attention map during inference time. This significantly increases the memory
requirement, making it difficult to adopt a large T2V model as a backbone. To
address this, we introduce Video-MSG, a training-free Guidance method for T2V
generation based on Multimodal planning and Structured noise initialization.
Video-MSG consists of three steps, where in the first two steps, Video-MSG
creates Video Sketch, a fine-grained spatio-temporal plan for the final video,
specifying background, foreground, and object trajectories, in the form of
draft video frames. In the last step, Video-MSG guides a downstream T2V
diffusion model with Video Sketch through noise inversion and denoising.
Notably, Video-MSG does not need fine-tuning or attention manipulation with
additional memory during inference time, making it easier to adopt large T2V
models. Video-MSG demonstrates its effectiveness in enhancing text alignment
with multiple T2V backbones (VideoCrafter2 and CogVideoX-5B) on popular T2V
generation benchmarks (T2VCompBench and VBench). We provide comprehensive
ablation studies about noise inversion ratio, different background generators,
background object detection, and foreground object segmentation.

---

## 16. [UKBOB: One Billion MRI Labeled Masks for Generalizable 3D Medical Image
  Segmentation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.06908)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.06908](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.06908)

**Authors**: Emmanuelle Bourigault, Amir Jamaludin, Abdullah Hamdi

**Published**: 2025-04-09 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Niels Rogge

**Upvotes**: 6

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/EmmanuelleB985/UK_BOB) | [Project Page](https://emmanuelleb985.github.io/ukbob)

### Abstract

In medical imaging, the primary challenge is collecting large-scale labeled
data due to privacy concerns, logistics, and high labeling costs. In this work,
we present the UK Biobank Organs and Bones (UKBOB), the largest labeled dataset
of body organs, comprising 51,761 MRI 3D samples (equivalent to 17.9 million 2D
images) and more than 1.37 billion 2D segmentation masks of 72 organs, all
based on the UK Biobank MRI dataset. We utilize automatic labeling, introduce
an automated label cleaning pipeline with organ-specific filters, and manually
annotate a subset of 300 MRIs with 11 abdominal classes to validate the quality
(referred to as UKBOB-manual). This approach allows for scaling up the dataset
collection while maintaining confidence in the labels. We further confirm the
validity of the labels by demonstrating zero-shot generalization of trained
models on the filtered UKBOB to other small labeled datasets from similar
domains (e.g., abdominal MRI). To further mitigate the effect of noisy labels,
we propose a novel method called Entropy Test-time Adaptation (ETTA) to refine
the segmentation output. We use UKBOB to train a foundation model, Swin-BOB,
for 3D medical image segmentation based on the Swin-UNetr architecture,
achieving state-of-the-art results in several benchmarks in 3D medical imaging,
including the BRATS brain MRI tumor challenge (with a 0.4% improvement) and the
BTCV abdominal CT scan benchmark (with a 1.3% improvement). The pre-trained
models and the code are available at https://emmanuelleb985.github.io/ukbob ,
and the filtered labels will be made available with the UK Biobank.

---

## 17. [SpecReason: Fast and Accurate Inference-Time Compute via Speculative
  Reasoning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.07891)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.07891](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07891)

**Authors**: Rui Pan, Yinwei Dai, Zhihao Zhang, Gabriele Oliaro, Zhihao Jia, Ravi Netravali

**Published**: 2025-04-10 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Rui Pan

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ruipeterpan/specreason)

### Abstract

Recent advances in inference-time compute have significantly improved
performance on complex tasks by generating long chains of thought (CoTs) using
Large Reasoning Models (LRMs). However, this improved accuracy comes at the
cost of high inference latency due to the length of generated reasoning
sequences and the autoregressive nature of decoding. Our key insight in
tackling these overheads is that LRM inference, and the reasoning that it
embeds, is highly tolerant of approximations: complex tasks are typically
broken down into simpler steps, each of which brings utility based on the
semantic insight it provides for downstream steps rather than the exact tokens
it generates. Accordingly, we introduce SpecReason, a system that automatically
accelerates LRM inference by using a lightweight model to (speculatively) carry
out simpler intermediate reasoning steps and reserving the costly base model
only to assess (and potentially correct) the speculated outputs. Importantly,
SpecReason's focus on exploiting the semantic flexibility of thinking tokens in
preserving final-answer accuracy is complementary to prior speculation
techniques, most notably speculative decoding, which demands token-level
equivalence at each step. Across a variety of reasoning benchmarks, SpecReason
achieves 1.5-2.5times speedup over vanilla LRM inference while improving
accuracy by 1.0-9.9\%. Compared to speculative decoding without SpecReason,
their combination yields an additional 19.4-44.2\% latency reduction. We
open-source SpecReason at https://github.com/ruipeterpan/specreason.

---

## 18. [InteractVLM: 3D Interaction Reasoning from 2D Foundational Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.05303)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.05303](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.05303)

**Authors**: Sai Kumar Dwivedi, Dimitrije Antić, Shashank Tripathi, Omid Taheri, Cordelia Schmid, Michael J. Black, Dimitrios Tzionas

**Published**: 2025-04-07 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Sai Kumar Dwivedi

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/saidwivedi/InteractVLM) | [Project Page](https://interactvlm.is.tue.mpg.de/)

### Abstract

We introduce InteractVLM, a novel method to estimate 3D contact points on
human bodies and objects from single in-the-wild images, enabling accurate
human-object joint reconstruction in 3D. This is challenging due to occlusions,
depth ambiguities, and widely varying object shapes. Existing methods rely on
3D contact annotations collected via expensive motion-capture systems or
tedious manual labeling, limiting scalability and generalization. To overcome
this, InteractVLM harnesses the broad visual knowledge of large Vision-Language
Models (VLMs), fine-tuned with limited 3D contact data. However, directly
applying these models is non-trivial, as they reason only in 2D, while
human-object contact is inherently 3D. Thus we introduce a novel
Render-Localize-Lift module that: (1) embeds 3D body and object surfaces in 2D
space via multi-view rendering, (2) trains a novel multi-view localization
model (MV-Loc) to infer contacts in 2D, and (3) lifts these to 3D.
Additionally, we propose a new task called Semantic Human Contact estimation,
where human contact predictions are conditioned explicitly on object semantics,
enabling richer interaction modeling. InteractVLM outperforms existing work on
contact estimation and also facilitates 3D reconstruction from an in-the wild
image. Code and models are available at https://interactvlm.is.tue.mpg.de.

---

## 19. [BlenderGym: Benchmarking Foundational Model Systems for Graphics Editing](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.01786)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.01786](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.01786)

**Authors**: Yunqi Gu, Ian Huang, Jihyeon Je, Guandao Yang, Leonidas Guibas

**Published**: 2025-04-02 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Yunqi Gu(Richard)

**Upvotes**: 5

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/richard-guyunqi/BlenderGym-Open)

### Abstract

3D graphics editing is crucial in applications like movie production and game
design, yet it remains a time-consuming process that demands highly specialized
domain expertise. Automating this process is challenging because graphical
editing requires performing a variety of tasks, each requiring distinct skill
sets. Recently, vision-language models (VLMs) have emerged as a powerful
framework for automating the editing process, but their development and
evaluation are bottlenecked by the lack of a comprehensive benchmark that
requires human-level perception and presents real-world editing complexity. In
this work, we present BlenderGym, the first comprehensive VLM system benchmark
for 3D graphics editing. BlenderGym evaluates VLM systems through code-based 3D
reconstruction tasks. We evaluate closed- and open-source VLM systems and
observe that even the state-of-the-art VLM system struggles with tasks
relatively easy for human Blender users. Enabled by BlenderGym, we study how
inference scaling techniques impact VLM's performance on graphics editing
tasks. Notably, our findings reveal that the verifier used to guide the scaling
of generation can itself be improved through inference scaling, complementing
recent insights on inference scaling of LLM generation in coding and math
tasks. We further show that inference compute is not uniformly effective and
can be optimized by strategically distributing it between generation and
verification.

---

## 20. [Latent Diffusion Autoencoders: Toward Efficient and Meaningful
  Unsupervised Representation Learning in Medical Imaging](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08635)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08635](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08635)

**Authors**: Gabriele Lozupone, Alessandro Bria, Francesco Fontanella, Frederick J. A. Meijer, Claudio De Stefano, Henkjan Huisman

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Gabriele Lozupone

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/GabrieleLozupone/LDAE)

### Abstract

This study presents Latent Diffusion Autoencoder (LDAE), a novel
encoder-decoder diffusion-based framework for efficient and meaningful
unsupervised learning in medical imaging, focusing on Alzheimer disease (AD)
using brain MR from the ADNI database as a case study. Unlike conventional
diffusion autoencoders operating in image space, LDAE applies the diffusion
process in a compressed latent representation, improving computational
efficiency and making 3D medical imaging representation learning tractable. To
validate the proposed approach, we explore two key hypotheses: (i) LDAE
effectively captures meaningful semantic representations on 3D brain MR
associated with AD and ageing, and (ii) LDAE achieves high-quality image
generation and reconstruction while being computationally efficient.
Experimental results support both hypotheses: (i) linear-probe evaluations
demonstrate promising diagnostic performance for AD (ROC-AUC: 90%, ACC: 84%)
and age prediction (MAE: 4.1 years, RMSE: 5.2 years); (ii) the learned semantic
representations enable attribute manipulation, yielding anatomically plausible
modifications; (iii) semantic interpolation experiments show strong
reconstruction of missing scans, with SSIM of 0.969 (MSE: 0.0019) for a 6-month
gap. Even for longer gaps (24 months), the model maintains robust performance
(SSIM > 0.93, MSE < 0.004), indicating an ability to capture temporal
progression trends; (iv) compared to conventional diffusion autoencoders, LDAE
significantly increases inference throughput (20x faster) while also enhancing
reconstruction quality. These findings position LDAE as a promising framework
for scalable medical imaging applications, with the potential to serve as a
foundation model for medical image analysis. Code available at
https://github.com/GabrieleLozupone/LDAE

---

## 21. [SAEs Can Improve Unlearning: Dynamic Sparse Autoencoder
  Guardrails for Precision Unlearning in LLMs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2504.08192)

**ArXiv ID**: [2504.08192](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08192)

**Authors**: Aashiq Muhamed, Jacopo Bonato, Mona Diab, Virginia Smith

**Published**: 2025-04-11 | **Submitted**: 2025-04-14 by Aashiq Muhamed

**Upvotes**: 3

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aashiqmuhamed/DynamicSAEGuardrails)

### Abstract

Machine unlearning is a promising approach to improve LLM safety by removing
unwanted knowledge from the model. However, prevailing gradient-based
unlearning methods suffer from issues such as high computational costs,
hyperparameter instability, poor sequential unlearning capability,
vulnerability to relearning attacks, low data efficiency, and lack of
interpretability. While Sparse Autoencoders are well-suited to improve these
aspects by enabling targeted activation-based unlearning, prior approaches
underperform gradient-based methods. This work demonstrates that, contrary to
these earlier findings, SAEs can significantly improve unlearning when employed
dynamically. We introduce Dynamic DAE Guardrails (DSG), a novel
method for precision unlearning that leverages principled feature selection and
a dynamic classifier. Our experiments show DSG substantially outperforms
leading unlearning methods, achieving superior forget-utility trade-offs. DSG
addresses key drawbacks of gradient-based approaches for unlearning -- offering
enhanced computational efficiency and stability, robust performance in
sequential unlearning, stronger resistance to relearning attacks, better data
efficiency including zero-shot settings, and more interpretable unlearning.

---
