# Daily Papers - 2023-09-13

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-13)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [PhotoVerse: Tuning-Free Image Customization with Text-to-Image Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.05793)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.05793](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.05793)

**Authors**: Li Chen, Mengyi Zhao, Yiheng Liu, Mingxu Ding, Yangyang Song, Shizun Wang, Xu Wang, Hao Yang, Jing Liu, Kang Du, Min Zheng

**Published**: 2023-09-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 51

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/idonahum/photoVerse)

### Abstract

Personalized text-to-image generation has emerged as a powerful and
sought-after tool, empowering users to create customized images based on their
specific concepts and prompts. However, existing approaches to personalization
encounter multiple challenges, including long tuning times, large storage
requirements, the necessity for multiple input images per identity, and
limitations in preserving identity and editability. To address these obstacles,
we present PhotoVerse, an innovative methodology that incorporates a
dual-branch conditioning mechanism in both text and image domains, providing
effective control over the image generation process. Furthermore, we introduce
facial identity loss as a novel component to enhance the preservation of
identity during training. Remarkably, our proposed PhotoVerse eliminates the
need for test time tuning and relies solely on a single facial photo of the
target identity, significantly reducing the resource cost associated with image
generation. After a single training phase, our approach enables generating
high-quality images within only a few seconds. Moreover, our method can produce
diverse images that encompass various scenes and styles. The extensive
evaluation demonstrates the superior performance of our approach, which
achieves the dual objectives of preserving identity and facilitating
editability. Project page: https://photoverse2d.github.io/

---

## 2. [Efficient Memory Management for Large Language Model Serving with
  PagedAttention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.06180)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.06180](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06180)

**Authors**: Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng, Cody Hao Yu, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, Ion Stoica

**Published**: 2023-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm)

### Abstract

High throughput serving of large language models (LLMs) requires batching
sufficiently many requests at a time. However, existing systems struggle
because the key-value cache (KV cache) memory for each request is huge and
grows and shrinks dynamically. When managed inefficiently, this memory can be
significantly wasted by fragmentation and redundant duplication, limiting the
batch size. To address this problem, we propose PagedAttention, an attention
algorithm inspired by the classical virtual memory and paging techniques in
operating systems. On top of it, we build vLLM, an LLM serving system that
achieves (1) near-zero waste in KV cache memory and (2) flexible sharing of KV
cache within and across requests to further reduce memory usage. Our
evaluations show that vLLM improves the throughput of popular LLMs by
2-4times with the same level of latency compared to the state-of-the-art
systems, such as FasterTransformer and Orca. The improvement is more pronounced
with longer sequences, larger models, and more complex decoding algorithms.
vLLM's source code is publicly available at
https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm

---

## 3. [InstaFlow: One Step is Enough for High-Quality Diffusion-Based
  Text-to-Image Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.06380)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.06380](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06380)

**Authors**: Xingchao Liu, Xiwen Zhang, Jianzhu Ma, Jian Peng, Qiang Liu

**Published**: 2023-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gnobitab/instaflow)

### Abstract

Diffusion models have revolutionized text-to-image generation with its
exceptional quality and creativity. However, its multi-step sampling process is
known to be slow, often requiring tens of inference steps to obtain
satisfactory results. Previous attempts to improve its sampling speed and
reduce computational costs through distillation have been unsuccessful in
achieving a functional one-step model. In this paper, we explore a recent
method called Rectified Flow, which, thus far, has only been applied to small
datasets. The core of Rectified Flow lies in its reflow procedure, which
straightens the trajectories of probability flows, refines the coupling between
noises and images, and facilitates the distillation process with student
models. We propose a novel text-conditioned pipeline to turn Stable Diffusion
(SD) into an ultra-fast one-step model, in which we find reflow plays a
critical role in improving the assignment between noise and images. Leveraging
our new pipeline, we create, to the best of our knowledge, the first one-step
diffusion-based text-to-image generator with SD-level image quality, achieving
an FID (Frechet Inception Distance) of 23.3 on MS COCO 2017-5k, surpassing
the previous state-of-the-art technique, progressive distillation, by a
significant margin (37.2 rightarrow 23.3 in FID). By utilizing an
expanded network with 1.7B parameters, we further improve the FID to 22.4. We
call our one-step models InstaFlow. On MS COCO 2014-30k, InstaFlow
yields an FID of 13.1 in just 0.09 second, the best in leq 0.1 second
regime, outperforming the recent StyleGAN-T (13.9 in 0.1 second). Notably,
the training of InstaFlow only costs 199 A100 GPU days. Project
page:~https://github.com/gnobitab/InstaFlow.

---

## 4. [AstroLLaMA: Towards Specialized Foundation Models in Astronomy](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.06126)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.06126](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06126)

**Authors**: Tuan Dung Nguyen, Yuan-Sen Ting, Ioana Ciucă, Charlie O'Neill, Ze-Chang Sun, Maja Jabłońska, Sandor Kruk, Ernest Perkowski, Jack Miller, Jason Li, Josh Peek, Kartheik Iyer, Tomasz Różański, Pranav Khetarpal, Sharaf Zaman, David Brodrick, Sergio J. Rodríguez Méndez, Thang Bui, Alyssa Goodman, Alberto Accomazzi, Jill Naiman, Jesse Cranney, Kevin Schawinski, UniverseTBD

**Published**: 2023-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 18

### Abstract

Large language models excel in many human-language tasks but often falter in
highly specialized domains like scholarly astronomy. To bridge this gap, we
introduce AstroLLaMA, a 7-billion-parameter model fine-tuned from LLaMA-2 using
over 300,000 astronomy abstracts from arXiv. Optimized for traditional causal
language modeling, AstroLLaMA achieves a 30% lower perplexity than Llama-2,
showing marked domain adaptation. Our model generates more insightful and
scientifically relevant text completions and embedding extraction than
state-of-the-arts foundation models despite having significantly fewer
parameters. AstroLLaMA serves as a robust, domain-specific model with broad
fine-tuning potential. Its public release aims to spur astronomy-focused
research, including automatic paper summarization and conversational agent
development.

---

## 5. [LEAP Hand: Low-Cost, Efficient, and Anthropomorphic Hand for Robot
  Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.06440)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.06440](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06440)

**Authors**: Kenneth Shaw, Ananye Agarwal

**Published**: 2023-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Dexterous manipulation has been a long-standing challenge in robotics. While
machine learning techniques have shown some promise, results have largely been
currently limited to simulation. This can be mostly attributed to the lack of
suitable hardware. In this paper, we present LEAP Hand, a low-cost dexterous
and anthropomorphic hand for machine learning research. In contrast to previous
hands, LEAP Hand has a novel kinematic structure that allows maximal dexterity
regardless of finger pose. LEAP Hand is low-cost and can be assembled in 4
hours at a cost of 2000 USD from readily available parts. It is capable of
consistently exerting large torques over long durations of time. We show that
LEAP Hand can be used to perform several manipulation tasks in the real world
-- from visual teleoperation to learning from passive video data and sim2real.
LEAP Hand significantly outperforms its closest competitor Allegro Hand in all
our experiments while being 1/8th of the cost. We release detailed assembly
instructions, the Sim2Real pipeline and a development platform with useful APIs
on our website at https://leap-hand.github.io/

---

## 6. [Learning Disentangled Avatars with Hybrid 3D Representations](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.06441)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.06441](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06441)

**Authors**: Yao Feng, Weiyang Liu, Timo Bolkart, Jinlong Yang, Marc Pollefeys, Michael J. Black

**Published**: 2023-09-12 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-13 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Tremendous efforts have been made to learn animatable and photorealistic
human avatars. Towards this end, both explicit and implicit 3D representations
are heavily studied for a holistic modeling and capture of the whole human
(e.g., body, clothing, face and hair), but neither representation is an optimal
choice in terms of representation efficacy since different parts of the human
avatar have different modeling desiderata. For example, meshes are generally
not suitable for modeling clothing and hair. Motivated by this, we present
Disentangled Avatars~(DELTA), which models humans with hybrid explicit-implicit
3D representations. DELTA takes a monocular RGB video as input, and produces a
human avatar with separate body and clothing/hair layers. Specifically, we
demonstrate two important applications for DELTA. For the first one, we
consider the disentanglement of the human body and clothing and in the second,
we disentangle the face and hair. To do so, DELTA represents the body or face
with an explicit mesh-based parametric 3D model and the clothing or hair with
an implicit neural radiance field. To make this possible, we design an
end-to-end differentiable renderer that integrates meshes into volumetric
rendering, enabling DELTA to learn directly from monocular videos without any
3D supervision. Finally, we show that how these two applications can be easily
combined to model full-body avatars, such that the hair, face, body and
clothing can be fully disentangled yet jointly rendered. Such a disentanglement
enables hair and clothing transfer to arbitrary body shapes. We empirically
validate the effectiveness of DELTA's disentanglement by demonstrating its
promising performance on disentangled reconstruction, virtual clothing try-on
and hairstyle transfer. To facilitate future research, we also release an
open-sourced pipeline for the study of hybrid human avatar modeling.

---
