# Daily Papers - 2023-09-15

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-15)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [Generative Image Dynamics](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07906)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07906](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07906)

**Authors**: Zhengqi Li, Richard Tucker, Noah Snavely, Aleksander Holynski

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 55

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/fltwr/generative-image-dynamics)

### Abstract

We present an approach to modeling an image-space prior on scene dynamics.
Our prior is learned from a collection of motion trajectories extracted from
real video sequences containing natural, oscillating motion such as trees,
flowers, candles, and clothes blowing in the wind. Given a single image, our
trained model uses a frequency-coordinated diffusion sampling process to
predict a per-pixel long-term motion representation in the Fourier domain,
which we call a neural stochastic motion texture. This representation can be
converted into dense motion trajectories that span an entire video. Along with
an image-based rendering module, these trajectories can be used for a number of
downstream applications, such as turning still images into seamlessly looping
dynamic videos, or allowing users to realistically interact with objects in
real pictures.

---

## 2. [Agents: An Open-source Framework for Autonomous Language Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07870)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07870](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07870)

**Authors**: Wangchunshu Zhou, Yuchen Eleanor Jiang, Long Li, Jialong Wu, Tiannan Wang, Shi Qiu, Jintian Zhang, Jing Chen, Ruipu Wu, Shuai Wang, Shiding Zhu, Jiyu Chen, Wentao Zhang, Ningyu Zhang, Huajun Chen, Peng Cui, Mrinmaya Sachan

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 43

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aiwaves-cn/agents)

### Abstract

Recent advances on large language models (LLMs) enable researchers and
developers to build autonomous language agents that can automatically solve
various tasks and interact with environments, humans, and other agents using
natural language interfaces. We consider language agents as a promising
direction towards artificial general intelligence and release Agents, an
open-source library with the goal of opening up these advances to a wider
non-specialist audience. Agents is carefully engineered to support important
features including planning, memory, tool usage, multi-agent communication, and
fine-grained symbolic control. Agents is user-friendly as it enables
non-specialists to build, customize, test, tune, and deploy state-of-the-art
autonomous language agents without much coding. The library is also
research-friendly as its modularized design makes it easily extensible for
researchers. Agents is available at https://github.com/aiwaves-cn/agents.

---

## 3. [AudioSR: Versatile Audio Super-resolution at Scale](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07314)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07314](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07314)

**Authors**: Haohe Liu, Ke Chen, Qiao Tian, Wenwu Wang, Mark D. Plumbley

**Published**: 2023-09-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 29

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/haoheliu/versatile_audio_super_resolution)

### Abstract

Audio super-resolution is a fundamental task that predicts high-frequency
components for low-resolution audio, enhancing audio quality in digital
applications. Previous methods have limitations such as the limited scope of
audio types (e.g., music, speech) and specific bandwidth settings they can
handle (e.g., 4kHz to 8kHz). In this paper, we introduce a diffusion-based
generative model, AudioSR, that is capable of performing robust audio
super-resolution on versatile audio types, including sound effects, music, and
speech. Specifically, AudioSR can upsample any input audio signal within the
bandwidth range of 2kHz to 16kHz to a high-resolution audio signal at 24kHz
bandwidth with a sampling rate of 48kHz. Extensive objective evaluation on
various audio super-resolution benchmarks demonstrates the strong result
achieved by the proposed model. In addition, our subjective evaluation shows
that AudioSR can acts as a plug-and-play module to enhance the generation
quality of a wide range of audio generative models, including AudioLDM,
Fastspeech2, and MusicGen. Our code and demo are available at
https://audioldm.github.io/audiosr.

---

## 4. [Clinical Text Summarization: Adapting Large Language Models Can
  Outperform Human Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07430)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07430](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07430)

**Authors**: Dave Van Veen, Cara Van Uden, Louis Blankemeier, Jean-Benoit Delbrouck, Christian Bluethgen, Anuj Pareek, Malgorzata Polacin, William Collins, Neera Ahuja, Curtis P. Langlotz, Jason Hom, Sergios Gatidis, John Pauly, Akshay S. Chaudhari

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/stanfordmimi/clin-summ)

### Abstract

Sifting through vast textual data and summarizing key information imposes a
substantial burden on how clinicians allocate their time. Although large
language models (LLMs) have shown immense promise in natural language
processing (NLP) tasks, their efficacy across diverse clinical summarization
tasks has not yet been rigorously examined. In this work, we employ domain
adaptation methods on eight LLMs, spanning six datasets and four distinct
summarization tasks: radiology reports, patient questions, progress notes, and
doctor-patient dialogue. Our thorough quantitative assessment reveals
trade-offs between models and adaptation methods in addition to instances where
recent advances in LLMs may not lead to improved results. Further, in a
clinical reader study with six physicians, we depict that summaries from the
best adapted LLM are preferable to human summaries in terms of completeness and
correctness. Our ensuing qualitative analysis delineates mutual challenges
faced by both LLMs and human experts. Lastly, we correlate traditional
quantitative NLP metrics with reader study scores to enhance our understanding
of how these metrics align with physician preferences. Our research marks the
first evidence of LLMs outperforming human experts in clinical text
summarization across multiple tasks. This implies that integrating LLMs into
clinical workflows could alleviate documentation burden, empowering clinicians
to focus more on personalized patient care and other irreplaceable human
aspects of medicine.

---

## 5. [OmnimatteRF: Robust Omnimatte with 3D Background Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07749)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07749](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07749)

**Authors**: Geng Lin, Chen Gao, Jia-Bin Huang, Changil Kim, Yipeng Wang, Matthias Zwicker, Ayush Saraf

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/OmnimatteRF)

### Abstract

Video matting has broad applications, from adding interesting effects to
casually captured movies to assisting video production professionals. Matting
with associated effects such as shadows and reflections has also attracted
increasing research activity, and methods like Omnimatte have been proposed to
separate dynamic foreground objects of interest into their own layers. However,
prior works represent video backgrounds as 2D image layers, limiting their
capacity to express more complicated scenes, thus hindering application to
real-world videos. In this paper, we propose a novel video matting method,
OmnimatteRF, that combines dynamic 2D foreground layers and a 3D background
model. The 2D layers preserve the details of the subjects, while the 3D
background robustly reconstructs scenes in real-world videos. Extensive
experiments demonstrate that our method reconstructs scenes with better quality
on various videos.

---

## 6. [Ambiguity-Aware In-Context Learning with Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07900)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07900](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07900)

**Authors**: Lingyu Gao, Aditi Chaudhary, Krishna Srinivasan, Karthik Raman, Michael Bendersky

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

In-context learning (ICL) i.e. showing LLMs only a few task-specific
demonstrations has led to downstream gains with no task-specific fine-tuning
required. However, LLMs are sensitive to the choice of prompts, and therefore a
crucial research question is how to select good demonstrations for ICL. One
effective strategy is leveraging semantic similarity between the ICL
demonstrations and test inputs by using a text retriever, which however is
sub-optimal as that does not consider the LLM's existing knowledge about that
task. From prior work (Min et al., 2022), we already know that labels paired
with the demonstrations bias the model predictions. This leads us to our
hypothesis whether considering LLM's existing knowledge about the task,
especially with respect to the output label space can help in a better
demonstration selection strategy. Through extensive experimentation on three
text classification tasks, we find that it is beneficial to not only choose
semantically similar ICL demonstrations but also to choose those demonstrations
that help resolve the inherent label ambiguity surrounding the test example.
Interestingly, we find that including demonstrations that the LLM previously
mis-classified and also fall on the test example's decision boundary, brings
the most performance gain.

---

## 7. [Are Large Language Model-based Evaluators the Solution to Scaling Up
  Multilingual Evaluation?](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07462)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07462](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07462)

**Authors**: Rishav Hada, Varun Gumma, Adrian de Wynter, Harshita Diddee, Mohamed Ahmed, Monojit Choudhury, Kalika Bali, Sunayana Sitaram

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-15 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance on
Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks, such as Question Answering,
Summarization, and Classification. The use of LLMs as evaluators, that can rank
or score the output of other models (usually LLMs) has become increasingly
popular, due to the limitations of current evaluation techniques including the
lack of appropriate benchmarks, metrics, cost, and access to human annotators.
While LLMs are capable of handling approximately 100 languages, the majority of
languages beyond the top 20 lack systematic evaluation across various tasks,
metrics, and benchmarks. This creates an urgent need to scale up multilingual
evaluation to ensure a precise understanding of LLM performance across diverse
languages. LLM-based evaluators seem like the perfect solution to this problem,
as they do not require human annotators, human-created references, or
benchmarks and can theoretically be used to evaluate any language covered by
the LLM. In this paper, we investigate whether LLM-based evaluators can help
scale up multilingual evaluation. Specifically, we calibrate LLM-based
evaluation against 20k human judgments of five metrics across three
text-generation tasks in eight languages. Our findings indicate that LLM-based
evaluators may exhibit bias towards higher scores and should be used with
caution and should always be calibrated with a dataset of native speaker
judgments, particularly in low-resource and non-Latin script languages.

---
