# Daily Papers - 2023-09-29

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-29)

Total papers: 16

---

## 1. [Vision Transformers Need Registers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16588)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16588](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16588)

**Authors**: Timothée Darcet, Maxime Oquab, Julien Mairal, Piotr Bojanowski

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 86

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/dinov2)

### Abstract

Transformers have recently emerged as a powerful tool for learning visual
representations. In this paper, we identify and characterize artifacts in
feature maps of both supervised and self-supervised ViT networks. The artifacts
correspond to high-norm tokens appearing during inference primarily in
low-informative background areas of images, that are repurposed for internal
computations. We propose a simple yet effective solution based on providing
additional tokens to the input sequence of the Vision Transformer to fill that
role. We show that this solution fixes that problem entirely for both
supervised and self-supervised models, sets a new state of the art for
self-supervised visual models on dense visual prediction tasks, enables object
discovery methods with larger models, and most importantly leads to smoother
feature maps and attention maps for downstream visual processing.

---

## 2. [AnyMAL: An Efficient and Scalable Any-Modality Augmented Language Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16058)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16058](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16058)

**Authors**: Seungwhan Moon, Andrea Madotto, Zhaojiang Lin, Tushar Nagarajan, Matt Smith, Shashank Jain, Chun-Fu Yeh, Prakash Murugesan, Peyman Heidari, Yue Liu, Kavya Srinet, Babak Damavandi, Anuj Kumar

**Published**: 2023-09-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 57

### Abstract

We present Any-Modality Augmented Language Model (AnyMAL), a unified model
that reasons over diverse input modality signals (i.e. text, image, video,
audio, IMU motion sensor), and generates textual responses. AnyMAL inherits the
powerful text-based reasoning abilities of the state-of-the-art LLMs including
LLaMA-2 (70B), and converts modality-specific signals to the joint textual
space through a pre-trained aligner module. To further strengthen the
multimodal LLM's capabilities, we fine-tune the model with a multimodal
instruction set manually collected to cover diverse topics and tasks beyond
simple QAs. We conduct comprehensive empirical analysis comprising both human
and automatic evaluations, and demonstrate state-of-the-art performance on
various multimodal tasks.

---

## 3. [DreamGaussian: Generative Gaussian Splatting for Efficient 3D Content
  Creation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16653)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16653](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16653)

**Authors**: Jiaxiang Tang, Jiawei Ren, Hang Zhou, Ziwei Liu, Gang Zeng

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 48

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/dreamgaussian/dreamgaussian)

### Abstract

Recent advances in 3D content creation mostly leverage optimization-based 3D
generation via score distillation sampling (SDS). Though promising results have
been exhibited, these methods often suffer from slow per-sample optimization,
limiting their practical usage. In this paper, we propose DreamGaussian, a
novel 3D content generation framework that achieves both efficiency and quality
simultaneously. Our key insight is to design a generative 3D Gaussian Splatting
model with companioned mesh extraction and texture refinement in UV space. In
contrast to the occupancy pruning used in Neural Radiance Fields, we
demonstrate that the progressive densification of 3D Gaussians converges
significantly faster for 3D generative tasks. To further enhance the texture
quality and facilitate downstream applications, we introduce an efficient
algorithm to convert 3D Gaussians into textured meshes and apply a fine-tuning
stage to refine the details. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superior
efficiency and competitive generation quality of our proposed approach.
Notably, DreamGaussian produces high-quality textured meshes in just 2 minutes
from a single-view image, achieving approximately 10 times acceleration
compared to existing methods.

---

## 4. [Qwen Technical Report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16609)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16609](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16609)

**Authors**: Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Yunfei Chu, Zeyu Cui, Kai Dang, Xiaodong Deng, Yang Fan, Wenbin Ge, Yu Han, Fei Huang, Binyuan Hui, Luo Ji, Mei Li, Junyang Lin, Runji Lin, Dayiheng Liu, Gao Liu, Chengqiang Lu, Keming Lu, Jianxin Ma, Rui Men, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Chuanqi Tan, Sinan Tan, Jianhong Tu, Peng Wang, Shijie Wang, Wei Wang, Shengguang Wu, Benfeng Xu, Jin Xu, An Yang, Hao Yang, Jian Yang, Shusheng Yang, Yang Yao, Bowen Yu, Hongyi Yuan, Zheng Yuan, Jianwei Zhang, Xingxuan Zhang, Yichang Zhang, Zhenru Zhang, Chang Zhou, Jingren Zhou, Xiaohuan Zhou, Tianhang Zhu

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 38

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen-7B)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized the field of artificial
intelligence, enabling natural language processing tasks that were previously
thought to be exclusive to humans. In this work, we introduce Qwen, the first
installment of our large language model series. Qwen is a comprehensive
language model series that encompasses distinct models with varying parameter
counts. It includes Qwen, the base pretrained language models, and Qwen-Chat,
the chat models finetuned with human alignment techniques. The base language
models consistently demonstrate superior performance across a multitude of
downstream tasks, and the chat models, particularly those trained using
Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF), are highly competitive. The
chat models possess advanced tool-use and planning capabilities for creating
agent applications, showcasing impressive performance even when compared to
bigger models on complex tasks like utilizing a code interpreter. Furthermore,
we have developed coding-specialized models, Code-Qwen and Code-Qwen-Chat, as
well as mathematics-focused models, Math-Qwen-Chat, which are built upon base
language models. These models demonstrate significantly improved performance in
comparison with open-source models, and slightly fall behind the proprietary
models.

---

## 5. [Text-to-3D using Gaussian Splatting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16585)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16585](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16585)

**Authors**: Zilong Chen, Feng Wang, Huaping Liu

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 33

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gsgen3d/gsgen)

### Abstract

In this paper, we present Gaussian Splatting based text-to-3D generation
(GSGEN), a novel approach for generating high-quality 3D objects. Previous
methods suffer from inaccurate geometry and limited fidelity due to the absence
of 3D prior and proper representation. We leverage 3D Gaussian Splatting, a
recent state-of-the-art representation, to address existing shortcomings by
exploiting the explicit nature that enables the incorporation of 3D prior.
Specifically, our method adopts a progressive optimization strategy, which
includes a geometry optimization stage and an appearance refinement stage. In
geometry optimization, a coarse representation is established under a 3D
geometry prior along with the ordinary 2D SDS loss, ensuring a sensible and
3D-consistent rough shape. Subsequently, the obtained Gaussians undergo an
iterative refinement to enrich details. In this stage, we increase the number
of Gaussians by compactness-based densification to enhance continuity and
improve fidelity. With these designs, our approach can generate 3D content with
delicate details and more accurate geometry. Extensive evaluations demonstrate
the effectiveness of our method, especially for capturing high-frequency
components. Video results are provided at https://gsgen3d.github.io. Our code
is available at https://github.com/gsgen3d/gsgen

---

## 6. [Effective Long-Context Scaling of Foundation Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16039)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16039](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16039)

**Authors**: Wenhan Xiong, Jingyu Liu, Igor Molybog, Hejia Zhang, Prajjwal Bhargava, Rui Hou, Louis Martin, Rashi Rungta, Karthik Abinav Sankararaman, Barlas Oguz, Madian Khabsa, Han Fang, Yashar Mehdad, Sharan Narang, Kshitiz Malik, Angela Fan, Shruti Bhosale, Sergey Edunov, Mike Lewis, Sinong Wang, Hao Ma

**Published**: 2023-09-27 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

### Abstract

We present a series of long-context LLMs that support effective context
windows of up to 32,768 tokens. Our model series are built through continual
pretraining from Llama 2 with longer training sequences and on a dataset where
long texts are upsampled. We perform extensive evaluation on language modeling,
synthetic context probing tasks, and a wide range of research benchmarks. On
research benchmarks, our models achieve consistent improvements on most regular
tasks and significant improvements on long-context tasks over Llama 2. Notably,
with a cost-effective instruction tuning procedure that does not require
human-annotated long instruction data, the 70B variant can already surpass
gpt-3.5-turbo-16k's overall performance on a suite of long-context tasks.
Alongside these results, we provide an in-depth analysis on the individual
components of our method. We delve into Llama's position encodings and discuss
its limitation in modeling long dependencies. We also examine the impact of
various design choices in the pretraining process, including the data mix and
the training curriculum of sequence lengths -- our ablation experiments suggest
that having abundant long texts in the pretrain dataset is not the key to
achieving strong performance, and we empirically verify that long context
continual pretraining is more efficient and similarly effective compared to
pretraining from scratch with long sequences.

---

## 7. [Deep Geometrized Cartoon Line Inbetweening](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16643)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16643](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16643)

**Authors**: Li Siyao, Tianpei Gu, Weiye Xiao, Henghui Ding, Ziwei Liu, Chen Change Loy

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/lisiyao21/animeinbet)

### Abstract

We aim to address a significant but understudied problem in the anime
industry, namely the inbetweening of cartoon line drawings. Inbetweening
involves generating intermediate frames between two black-and-white line
drawings and is a time-consuming and expensive process that can benefit from
automation. However, existing frame interpolation methods that rely on matching
and warping whole raster images are unsuitable for line inbetweening and often
produce blurring artifacts that damage the intricate line structures. To
preserve the precision and detail of the line drawings, we propose a new
approach, AnimeInbet, which geometrizes raster line drawings into graphs of
endpoints and reframes the inbetweening task as a graph fusion problem with
vertex repositioning. Our method can effectively capture the sparsity and
unique structure of line drawings while preserving the details during
inbetweening. This is made possible via our novel modules, i.e., vertex
geometric embedding, a vertex correspondence Transformer, an effective
mechanism for vertex repositioning and a visibility predictor. To train our
method, we introduce MixamoLine240, a new dataset of line drawings with ground
truth vectorization and matching labels. Our experiments demonstrate that
AnimeInbet synthesizes high-quality, clean, and complete intermediate line
drawings, outperforming existing methods quantitatively and qualitatively,
especially in cases with large motions. Data and code are available at
https://github.com/lisiyao21/AnimeInbet.

---

## 8. [Demystifying CLIP Data](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16671)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16671](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16671)

**Authors**: Hu Xu, Saining Xie, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Po-Yao Huang, Russell Howes, Vasu Sharma, Shang-Wen Li, Gargi Ghosh, Luke Zettlemoyer, Christoph Feichtenhofer

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) is an approach that has
advanced research and applications in computer vision, fueling modern
recognition systems and generative models. We believe that the main ingredient
to the success of CLIP is its data and not the model architecture or
pre-training objective. However, CLIP only provides very limited information
about its data and how it has been collected, leading to works that aim to
reproduce CLIP's data by filtering with its model parameters. In this work, we
intend to reveal CLIP's data curation approach and in our pursuit of making it
open to the community introduce Metadata-Curated Language-Image Pre-training
(MetaCLIP). MetaCLIP takes a raw data pool and metadata (derived from CLIP's
concepts) and yields a balanced subset over the metadata distribution. Our
experimental study rigorously isolates the model and training settings,
concentrating solely on data. MetaCLIP applied to CommonCrawl with 400M
image-text data pairs outperforms CLIP's data on multiple standard benchmarks.
In zero-shot ImageNet classification, MetaCLIP achieves 70.8% accuracy,
surpassing CLIP's 68.3% on ViT-B models. Scaling to 1B data, while maintaining
the same training budget, attains 72.4%. Our observations hold across various
model sizes, exemplified by ViT-H achieving 80.5%, without any
bells-and-whistles. Curation code and training data distribution on metadata is
made available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/MetaCLIP.

---

## 9. [AutoCLIP: Auto-tuning Zero-Shot Classifiers for Vision-Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16414)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16414](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16414)

**Authors**: Jan Hendrik Metzen, Piyapat Saranrittichai, Chaithanya Kumar Mummadi

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/boschresearch/autoclip)

### Abstract

Classifiers built upon vision-language models such as CLIP have shown
remarkable zero-shot performance across a broad range of image classification
tasks. Prior work has studied different ways of automatically creating
descriptor sets for every class based on prompt templates, ranging from
manually engineered templates over templates obtained from a large language
model to templates built from random words and characters. In contrast,
deriving zero-shot classifiers from the respective encoded class descriptors
has remained nearly unchanged, that is: classify to the class that maximizes
the cosine similarity between its averaged encoded class descriptors and the
encoded image. However, weighting all class descriptors equally can be
suboptimal when certain descriptors match visual clues on a given image better
than others. In this work, we propose AutoCLIP, a method for auto-tuning
zero-shot classifiers. AutoCLIP assigns to each prompt template per-image
weights, which are derived from statistics of class descriptor-image
similarities at inference time. AutoCLIP is fully unsupervised, has very low
overhead, and can be easily implemented in few lines of code. We show that for
a broad range of vision-language models, datasets, and prompt templates,
AutoCLIP outperforms baselines consistently and by up to 3 percent point
accuracy.

---

## 10. [MotionLM: Multi-Agent Motion Forecasting as Language Modeling](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16534)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16534](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16534)

**Authors**: Ari Seff, Brian Cera, Dian Chen, Mason Ng, Aurick Zhou, Nigamaa Nayakanti, Khaled S. Refaat, Rami Al-Rfou, Benjamin Sapp

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Reliable forecasting of the future behavior of road agents is a critical
component to safe planning in autonomous vehicles. Here, we represent
continuous trajectories as sequences of discrete motion tokens and cast
multi-agent motion prediction as a language modeling task over this domain. Our
model, MotionLM, provides several advantages: First, it does not require
anchors or explicit latent variable optimization to learn multimodal
distributions. Instead, we leverage a single standard language modeling
objective, maximizing the average log probability over sequence tokens. Second,
our approach bypasses post-hoc interaction heuristics where individual agent
trajectory generation is conducted prior to interactive scoring. Instead,
MotionLM produces joint distributions over interactive agent futures in a
single autoregressive decoding process. In addition, the model's sequential
factorization enables temporally causal conditional rollouts. The proposed
approach establishes new state-of-the-art performance for multi-agent motion
prediction on the Waymo Open Motion Dataset, ranking 1st on the interactive
challenge leaderboard.

---

## 11. [RealFill: Reference-Driven Generation for Authentic Image Completion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16668)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16668](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16668)

**Authors**: Luming Tang, Nataniel Ruiz, Qinghao Chu, Yuanzhen Li, Aleksander Holynski, David E. Jacobs, Bharath Hariharan, Yael Pritch, Neal Wadhwa, Kfir Aberman, Michael Rubinstein

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Recent advances in generative imagery have brought forth outpainting and
inpainting models that can produce high-quality, plausible image content in
unknown regions, but the content these models hallucinate is necessarily
inauthentic, since the models lack sufficient context about the true scene. In
this work, we propose RealFill, a novel generative approach for image
completion that fills in missing regions of an image with the content that
should have been there. RealFill is a generative inpainting model that is
personalized using only a few reference images of a scene. These reference
images do not have to be aligned with the target image, and can be taken with
drastically varying viewpoints, lighting conditions, camera apertures, or image
styles. Once personalized, RealFill is able to complete a target image with
visually compelling contents that are faithful to the original scene. We
evaluate RealFill on a new image completion benchmark that covers a set of
diverse and challenging scenarios, and find that it outperforms existing
approaches by a large margin. See more results on our project page:
https://realfill.github.io

---

## 12. [GPT-Fathom: Benchmarking Large Language Models to Decipher the
  Evolutionary Path towards GPT-4 and Beyond](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16583)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16583](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16583)

**Authors**: Shen Zheng, Yuyu Zhang, Yijie Zhu, Chenguang Xi, Pengyang Gao, Xun Zhou, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/gpt-fathom/gpt-fathom)

### Abstract

With the rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs), there is a
pressing need for a comprehensive evaluation suite to assess their capabilities
and limitations. Existing LLM leaderboards often reference scores reported in
other papers without consistent settings and prompts, which may inadvertently
encourage cherry-picking favored settings and prompts for better results. In
this work, we introduce GPT-Fathom, an open-source and reproducible LLM
evaluation suite built on top of OpenAI Evals. We systematically evaluate 10+
leading LLMs as well as OpenAI's legacy models on 20+ curated benchmarks across
7 capability categories, all under aligned settings. Our retrospective study on
OpenAI's earlier models offers valuable insights into the evolutionary path
from GPT-3 to GPT-4. Currently, the community is eager to know how GPT-3
progressively improves to GPT-4, including technical details like whether
adding code data improves LLM's reasoning capability, which aspects of LLM
capability can be improved by SFT and RLHF, how much is the alignment tax, etc.
Our analysis sheds light on many of these questions, aiming to improve the
transparency of advanced LLMs.

---

## 13. [Diverse and Aligned Audio-to-Video Generation via Text-to-Video Model
  Adaptation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16429)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16429](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16429)

**Authors**: Guy Yariv, Itai Gat, Sagie Benaim, Lior Wolf, Idan Schwartz, Yossi Adi

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/guyyariv/TempoTokens)

### Abstract

We consider the task of generating diverse and realistic videos guided by
natural audio samples from a wide variety of semantic classes. For this task,
the videos are required to be aligned both globally and temporally with the
input audio: globally, the input audio is semantically associated with the
entire output video, and temporally, each segment of the input audio is
associated with a corresponding segment of that video. We utilize an existing
text-conditioned video generation model and a pre-trained audio encoder model.
The proposed method is based on a lightweight adaptor network, which learns to
map the audio-based representation to the input representation expected by the
text-to-video generation model. As such, it also enables video generation
conditioned on text, audio, and, for the first time as far as we can ascertain,
on both text and audio. We validate our method extensively on three datasets
demonstrating significant semantic diversity of audio-video samples and further
propose a novel evaluation metric (AV-Align) to assess the alignment of
generated videos with input audio samples. AV-Align is based on the detection
and comparison of energy peaks in both modalities. In comparison to recent
state-of-the-art approaches, our method generates videos that are better
aligned with the input sound, both with respect to content and temporal axis.
We also show that videos produced by our method present higher visual quality
and are more diverse.

---

## 14. [ConceptGraphs: Open-Vocabulary 3D Scene Graphs for Perception and
  Planning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16650)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16650](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16650)

**Authors**: Qiao Gu, Alihusein Kuwajerwala, Sacha Morin, Krishna Murthy Jatavallabhula, Bipasha Sen, Aditya Agarwal, Corban Rivera, William Paul, Kirsty Ellis, Rama Chellappa, Chuang Gan, Celso Miguel de Melo, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, Antonio Torralba, Florian Shkurti, Liam Paull

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

For robots to perform a wide variety of tasks, they require a 3D
representation of the world that is semantically rich, yet compact and
efficient for task-driven perception and planning. Recent approaches have
attempted to leverage features from large vision-language models to encode
semantics in 3D representations. However, these approaches tend to produce maps
with per-point feature vectors, which do not scale well in larger environments,
nor do they contain semantic spatial relationships between entities in the
environment, which are useful for downstream planning. In this work, we propose
ConceptGraphs, an open-vocabulary graph-structured representation for 3D
scenes. ConceptGraphs is built by leveraging 2D foundation models and fusing
their output to 3D by multi-view association. The resulting representations
generalize to novel semantic classes, without the need to collect large 3D
datasets or finetune models. We demonstrate the utility of this representation
through a number of downstream planning tasks that are specified through
abstract (language) prompts and require complex reasoning over spatial and
semantic concepts. (Project page: https://concept-graphs.github.io/ Explainer
video: https://youtu.be/mRhNkQwRYnc )

---

## 15. [Language models in molecular discovery](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16235)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16235](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16235)

**Authors**: Nikita Janakarajan, Tim Erdmann, Sarath Swaminathan, Teodoro Laino, Jannis Born

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

The success of language models, especially transformer-based architectures,
has trickled into other domains giving rise to "scientific language models"
that operate on small molecules, proteins or polymers. In chemistry, language
models contribute to accelerating the molecule discovery cycle as evidenced by
promising recent findings in early-stage drug discovery. Here, we review the
role of language models in molecular discovery, underlining their strength in
de novo drug design, property prediction and reaction chemistry. We highlight
valuable open-source software assets thus lowering the entry barrier to the
field of scientific language modeling. Last, we sketch a vision for future
molecular design that combines a chatbot interface with access to computational
chemistry tools. Our contribution serves as a valuable resource for
researchers, chemists, and AI enthusiasts interested in understanding how
language models can and will be used to accelerate chemical discovery.

---

## 16. [CCEdit: Creative and Controllable Video Editing via Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.16496)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.16496](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16496)

**Authors**: Ruoyu Feng, Wenming Weng, Yanhui Wang, Yuhui Yuan, Jianmin Bao, Chong Luo, Zhibo Chen, Baining Guo

**Published**: 2023-09-28 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-29 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ruoyufeng/ccedit)

### Abstract

In this work, we present CCEdit, a versatile framework designed to address
the challenges of creative and controllable video editing. CCEdit accommodates
a wide spectrum of user editing requirements and enables enhanced creative
control through an innovative approach that decouples video structure and
appearance. We leverage the foundational ControlNet architecture to preserve
structural integrity, while seamlessly integrating adaptable temporal modules
compatible with state-of-the-art personalization techniques for text-to-image
generation, such as DreamBooth and LoRA.Furthermore, we introduce
reference-conditioned video editing, empowering users to exercise precise
creative control over video editing through the more manageable process of
editing key frames. Our extensive experimental evaluations confirm the
exceptional functionality and editing capabilities of the proposed CCEdit
framework. Demo video is available at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UQw4jq-igN4.

---
