# Daily Papers - 2023-09-06

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-06)

Total papers: 15

---

## 1. [One Wide Feedforward is All You Need](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.01826)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.01826](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.01826)

**Authors**: Telmo Pessoa Pires, António V. Lopes, Yannick Assogba, Hendra Setiawan

**Published**: 2023-09-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 34

### Abstract

The Transformer architecture has two main non-embedding components: Attention
and the Feed Forward Network (FFN). Attention captures interdependencies
between words regardless of their position, while the FFN non-linearly
transforms each input token independently. In this work we explore the role of
the FFN, and find that despite taking up a significant fraction of the model's
parameters, it is highly redundant. Concretely, we are able to substantially
reduce the number of parameters with only a modest drop in accuracy by removing
the FFN on the decoder layers and sharing a single FFN across the encoder.
Finally we scale this architecture back to its original size by increasing the
hidden dimension of the shared FFN, achieving substantial gains in both
accuracy and latency with respect to the original Transformer Big.

---

## 2. [AniPortraitGAN: Animatable 3D Portrait Generation from 2D Image
  Collections](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.02186)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.02186](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02186)

**Authors**: Yue Wu, Sicheng Xu, Jianfeng Xiang, Fangyun Wei, Qifeng Chen, Jiaolong Yang, Xin Tong

**Published**: 2023-09-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 23

### Abstract

Previous animatable 3D-aware GANs for human generation have primarily focused
on either the human head or full body. However, head-only videos are relatively
uncommon in real life, and full body generation typically does not deal with
facial expression control and still has challenges in generating high-quality
results. Towards applicable video avatars, we present an animatable 3D-aware
GAN that generates portrait images with controllable facial expression, head
pose, and shoulder movements. It is a generative model trained on unstructured
2D image collections without using 3D or video data. For the new task, we base
our method on the generative radiance manifold representation and equip it with
learnable facial and head-shoulder deformations. A dual-camera rendering and
adversarial learning scheme is proposed to improve the quality of the generated
faces, which is critical for portrait images. A pose deformation processing
network is developed to generate plausible deformations for challenging regions
such as long hair. Experiments show that our method, trained on unstructured 2D
images, can generate diverse and high-quality 3D portraits with desired control
over different properties.

---

## 3. [ModelScope-Agent: Building Your Customizable Agent System with
  Open-source Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.00986)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.00986](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00986)

**Authors**: Chenliang Li, Hehong Chen, Ming Yan, Weizhou Shen, Haiyang Xu, Zhikai Wu, Zhicheng Zhang, Wenmeng Zhou, Yingda Chen, Chen Cheng, Hongzhu Shi, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, Jingren Zhou

**Published**: 2023-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 22

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have recently demonstrated remarkable
capabilities to comprehend human intentions, engage in reasoning, and design
planning-like behavior. To further unleash the power of LLMs to accomplish
complex tasks, there is a growing trend to build agent framework that equips
LLMs, such as ChatGPT, with tool-use abilities to connect with massive external
APIs. In this work, we introduce ModelScope-Agent, a general and customizable
agent framework for real-world applications, based on open-source LLMs as
controllers. It provides a user-friendly system library, with customizable
engine design to support model training on multiple open-source LLMs, while
also enabling seamless integration with both model APIs and common APIs in a
unified way. To equip the LLMs with tool-use abilities, a comprehensive
framework has been proposed spanning over tool-use data collection, tool
retrieval, tool registration, memory control, customized model training, and
evaluation for practical real-world applications. Finally, we showcase
ModelScopeGPT, a real-world intelligent assistant of ModelScope Community based
on the ModelScope-Agent framework, which is able to connect open-source LLMs
with more than 1000 public AI models and localized community knowledge in
ModelScope. The ModelScope-Agent
libraryhttps://github.com/modelscope/modelscope-agent and online
demohttps://modelscope.cn/studios/damo/ModelScopeGPT/summary are now
publicly available.

---

## 4. [ControlMat: A Controlled Generative Approach to Material Capture](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.01700)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.01700](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.01700)

**Organization**: Adobe

**Authors**: Giuseppe Vecchio, Rosalie Martin, Arthur Roullier, Adrien Kaiser, Romain Rouffet, Valentin Deschaintre, Tamy Boubekeur

**Published**: 2023-09-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

### Abstract

Material reconstruction from a photograph is a key component of 3D content
creation democratization. We propose to formulate this ill-posed problem as a
controlled synthesis one, leveraging the recent progress in generative deep
networks. We present ControlMat, a method which, given a single photograph with
uncontrolled illumination as input, conditions a diffusion model to generate
plausible, tileable, high-resolution physically-based digital materials. We
carefully analyze the behavior of diffusion models for multi-channel outputs,
adapt the sampling process to fuse multi-scale information and introduce rolled
diffusion to enable both tileability and patched diffusion for high-resolution
outputs. Our generative approach further permits exploration of a variety of
materials which could correspond to the input image, mitigating the unknown
lighting conditions. We show that our approach outperforms recent inference and
latent-space-optimization methods, and carefully validate our diffusion process
design choices. Supplemental materials and additional details are available at:
https://gvecchio.com/controlmat/.

---

## 5. [Efficient RLHF: Reducing the Memory Usage of PPO](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.00754)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.00754](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00754)

**Authors**: Michael Santacroce, Yadong Lu, Han Yu, Yuanzhi Li, Yelong Shen

**Published**: 2023-09-01 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) has revolutionized language
modeling by aligning models with human preferences. However, the RL stage,
Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), requires over 3x the memory of Supervised
Fine-Tuning (SFT), making it infeasible to use for most practitioners. To
address this issue, we present a comprehensive analysis the memory usage,
performance, and training time of memory-savings techniques for PPO. We
introduce Hydra-RLHF by first integrating the SFT and Reward models and then
dynamically turning LoRA "off" during training. Our experiments show: 1. Using
LoRA during PPO reduces its memory usage to be smaller than SFT while improving
alignment across four public benchmarks, and 2. Hydra-PPO reduces the latency
per sample of LoRA-PPO by up to 65% while maintaining its performance. Our
results demonstrate that Hydra-PPO is a simple and promising solution for
enabling more widespread usage of RLHF.

---

## 6. [PromptTTS 2: Describing and Generating Voices with Text Prompt](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.02285)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.02285](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02285)

**Authors**: Yichong Leng, Zhifang Guo, Kai Shen, Xu Tan, Zeqian Ju, Yanqing Liu, Yufei Liu, Dongchao Yang, Leying Zhang, Kaitao Song, Lei He, Xiang-Yang Li, Sheng Zhao, Tao Qin, Jiang Bian

**Published**: 2023-09-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Speech conveys more information than just text, as the same word can be
uttered in various voices to convey diverse information. Compared to
traditional text-to-speech (TTS) methods relying on speech prompts (reference
speech) for voice variability, using text prompts (descriptions) is more
user-friendly since speech prompts can be hard to find or may not exist at all.
TTS approaches based on the text prompt face two challenges: 1) the one-to-many
problem, where not all details about voice variability can be described in the
text prompt, and 2) the limited availability of text prompt datasets, where
vendors and large cost of data labeling are required to write text prompt for
speech. In this work, we introduce PromptTTS 2 to address these challenges with
a variation network to provide variability information of voice not captured by
text prompts, and a prompt generation pipeline to utilize the large language
models (LLM) to compose high quality text prompts. Specifically, the variation
network predicts the representation extracted from the reference speech (which
contains full information about voice) based on the text prompt representation.
For the prompt generation pipeline, it generates text prompts for speech with a
speech understanding model to recognize voice attributes (e.g., gender, speed)
from speech and a large language model to formulate text prompt based on the
recognition results. Experiments on a large-scale (44K hours) speech dataset
demonstrate that compared to the previous works, PromptTTS 2 generates voices
more consistent with text prompts and supports the sampling of diverse voice
variability, thereby offering users more choices on voice generation.
Additionally, the prompt generation pipeline produces high-quality prompts,
eliminating the large labeling cost. The demo page of PromptTTS 2 is available
onlinehttps://speechresearch.github.io/prompttts2.

---

## 7. [Hierarchical Masked 3D Diffusion Model for Video Outpainting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.02119)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.02119](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02119)

**Authors**: Fanda Fan, Chaoxu Guo, Litong Gong, Biao Wang, Tiezheng Ge, Yuning Jiang, Chunjie Luo, Jianfeng Zhan

**Published**: 2023-09-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 13

### Abstract

Video outpainting aims to adequately complete missing areas at the edges of
video frames. Compared to image outpainting, it presents an additional
challenge as the model should maintain the temporal consistency of the filled
area. In this paper, we introduce a masked 3D diffusion model for video
outpainting. We use the technique of mask modeling to train the 3D diffusion
model. This allows us to use multiple guide frames to connect the results of
multiple video clip inferences, thus ensuring temporal consistency and reducing
jitter between adjacent frames. Meanwhile, we extract the global frames of the
video as prompts and guide the model to obtain information other than the
current video clip using cross-attention. We also introduce a hybrid
coarse-to-fine inference pipeline to alleviate the artifact accumulation
problem. The existing coarse-to-fine pipeline only uses the infilling strategy,
which brings degradation because the time interval of the sparse frames is too
large. Our pipeline benefits from bidirectional learning of the mask modeling
and thus can employ a hybrid strategy of infilling and interpolation when
generating sparse frames. Experiments show that our method achieves
state-of-the-art results in video outpainting tasks. More results are provided
at our https://fanfanda.github.io/M3DDM/.

---

## 8. [StyleAdapter: A Single-Pass LoRA-Free Model for Stylized Image
  Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.01770)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.01770](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.01770)

**Authors**: Zhouxia Wang, Xintao Wang, Liangbin Xie, Zhongang Qi, Ying Shan, Wenping Wang, Ping Luo

**Published**: 2023-09-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

This paper presents a LoRA-free method for stylized image generation that
takes a text prompt and style reference images as inputs and produces an output
image in a single pass. Unlike existing methods that rely on training a
separate LoRA for each style, our method can adapt to various styles with a
unified model. However, this poses two challenges: 1) the prompt loses
controllability over the generated content, and 2) the output image inherits
both the semantic and style features of the style reference image, compromising
its content fidelity. To address these challenges, we introduce StyleAdapter, a
model that comprises two components: a two-path cross-attention module (TPCA)
and three decoupling strategies. These components enable our model to process
the prompt and style reference features separately and reduce the strong
coupling between the semantic and style information in the style references.
StyleAdapter can generate high-quality images that match the content of the
prompts and adopt the style of the references (even for unseen styles) in a
single pass, which is more flexible and efficient than previous methods.
Experiments have been conducted to demonstrate the superiority of our method
over previous works.

---

## 9. [Doppelgangers: Learning to Disambiguate Images of Similar Structures](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.02420)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.02420](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02420)

**Authors**: Ruojin Cai, Joseph Tung, Qianqian Wang, Hadar Averbuch-Elor, Bharath Hariharan, Noah Snavely

**Published**: 2023-09-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/RuojinCai/Doppelgangers) | [Project Page](https://doppelgangers-3d.github.io/)

### Abstract

We consider the visual disambiguation task of determining whether a pair of
visually similar images depict the same or distinct 3D surfaces (e.g., the same
or opposite sides of a symmetric building). Illusory image matches, where two
images observe distinct but visually similar 3D surfaces, can be challenging
for humans to differentiate, and can also lead 3D reconstruction algorithms to
produce erroneous results. We propose a learning-based approach to visual
disambiguation, formulating it as a binary classification task on image pairs.
To that end, we introduce a new dataset for this problem, Doppelgangers, which
includes image pairs of similar structures with ground truth labels. We also
design a network architecture that takes the spatial distribution of local
keypoints and matches as input, allowing for better reasoning about both local
and global cues. Our evaluation shows that our method can distinguish illusory
matches in difficult cases, and can be integrated into SfM pipelines to produce
correct, disambiguated 3D reconstructions. See our project page for our code,
datasets, and more results: http://doppelgangers-3d.github.io/.

---

## 10. [Gated recurrent neural networks discover attention](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.01775)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.01775](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.01775)

**Authors**: Nicolas Zucchet, Seijin Kobayashi, Yassir Akram, Johannes von Oswald, Maxime Larcher, Angelika Steger, João Sacramento

**Published**: 2023-09-04 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

Recent architectural developments have enabled recurrent neural networks
(RNNs) to reach and even surpass the performance of Transformers on certain
sequence modeling tasks. These modern RNNs feature a prominent design pattern:
linear recurrent layers interconnected by feedforward paths with multiplicative
gating. Here, we show how RNNs equipped with these two design elements can
exactly implement (linear) self-attention, the main building block of
Transformers. By reverse-engineering a set of trained RNNs, we find that
gradient descent in practice discovers our construction. In particular, we
examine RNNs trained to solve simple in-context learning tasks on which
Transformers are known to excel and find that gradient descent instills in our
RNNs the same attention-based in-context learning algorithm used by
Transformers. Our findings highlight the importance of multiplicative
interactions in neural networks and suggest that certain RNNs might be
unexpectedly implementing attention under the hood.

---

## 11. [Contrastive Feature Masking Open-Vocabulary Vision Transformer](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.00775)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.00775](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00775)

**Authors**: Dahun Kim, Anelia Angelova, Weicheng Kuo

**Published**: 2023-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

We present Contrastive Feature Masking Vision Transformer (CFM-ViT) - an
image-text pretraining methodology that achieves simultaneous learning of
image- and region-level representation for open-vocabulary object detection
(OVD). Our approach combines the masked autoencoder (MAE) objective into the
contrastive learning objective to improve the representation for localization
tasks. Unlike standard MAE, we perform reconstruction in the joint image-text
embedding space, rather than the pixel space as is customary with the classical
MAE method, which causes the model to better learn region-level semantics.
Moreover, we introduce Positional Embedding Dropout (PED) to address scale
variation between image-text pretraining and detection finetuning by randomly
dropping out the positional embeddings during pretraining. PED improves
detection performance and enables the use of a frozen ViT backbone as a region
classifier, preventing the forgetting of open-vocabulary knowledge during
detection finetuning. On LVIS open-vocabulary detection benchmark, CFM-ViT
achieves a state-of-the-art 33.9 APr, surpassing the best approach by 7.6
points and achieves better zero-shot detection transfer. Finally, CFM-ViT
acquires strong image-level representation, outperforming the state of the art
on 8 out of 12 metrics on zero-shot image-text retrieval benchmarks.

---

## 12. [Compositional Diffusion-Based Continuous Constraint Solvers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.00966)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.00966](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00966)

**Authors**: Zhutian Yang, Jiayuan Mao, Yilun Du, Jiajun Wu, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, Tomás Lozano-Pérez, Leslie Pack Kaelbling

**Published**: 2023-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

This paper introduces an approach for learning to solve continuous constraint
satisfaction problems (CCSP) in robotic reasoning and planning. Previous
methods primarily rely on hand-engineering or learning generators for specific
constraint types and then rejecting the value assignments when other
constraints are violated. By contrast, our model, the compositional diffusion
continuous constraint solver (Diffusion-CCSP) derives global solutions to CCSPs
by representing them as factor graphs and combining the energies of diffusion
models trained to sample for individual constraint types. Diffusion-CCSP
exhibits strong generalization to novel combinations of known constraints, and
it can be integrated into a task and motion planner to devise long-horizon
plans that include actions with both discrete and continuous parameters.
Project site: https://diffusion-ccsp.github.io/

---

## 13. [MagicProp: Diffusion-based Video Editing via Motion-aware Appearance
  Propagation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.00908)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.00908](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00908)

**Authors**: Jun Hao Liew, Long Mai, Shanchuan Lin, Jiashi Feng

**Published**: 2023-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

This paper addresses the issue of modifying the visual appearance of videos
while preserving their motion. A novel framework, named MagicProp, is proposed,
which disentangles the video editing process into two stages: appearance
editing and motion-aware appearance propagation. In the first stage, MagicProp
selects a single frame from the input video and applies image-editing
techniques to modify the content and/or style of the frame. The flexibility of
these techniques enables the editing of arbitrary regions within the frame. In
the second stage, MagicProp employs the edited frame as an appearance reference
and generates the remaining frames using an autoregressive rendering approach.
To achieve this, a diffusion-based conditional generation model, called
PropDPM, is developed, which synthesizes the target frame by conditioning on
the reference appearance, the target motion, and its previous appearance. The
autoregressive editing approach ensures temporal consistency in the resulting
videos. Overall, MagicProp combines the flexibility of image-editing techniques
with the superior temporal consistency of autoregressive modeling, enabling
flexible editing of object types and aesthetic styles in arbitrary regions of
input videos while maintaining good temporal consistency across frames.
Extensive experiments in various video editing scenarios demonstrate the
effectiveness of MagicProp.

---

## 14. [Diffusion Generative Inverse Design](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.02040)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.02040](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02040)

**Authors**: Marin Vlastelica, Tatiana López-Guevara, Kelsey Allen, Peter Battaglia, Arnaud Doucet, Kimberley Stachenfeld

**Published**: 2023-09-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

Inverse design refers to the problem of optimizing the input of an objective
function in order to enact a target outcome. For many real-world engineering
problems, the objective function takes the form of a simulator that predicts
how the system state will evolve over time, and the design challenge is to
optimize the initial conditions that lead to a target outcome. Recent
developments in learned simulation have shown that graph neural networks (GNNs)
can be used for accurate, efficient, differentiable estimation of simulator
dynamics, and support high-quality design optimization with gradient- or
sampling-based optimization procedures. However, optimizing designs from
scratch requires many expensive model queries, and these procedures exhibit
basic failures on either non-convex or high-dimensional problems.In this work,
we show how denoising diffusion models (DDMs) can be used to solve inverse
design problems efficiently and propose a particle sampling algorithm for
further improving their efficiency. We perform experiments on a number of fluid
dynamics design challenges, and find that our approach substantially reduces
the number of calls to the simulator compared to standard techniques.

---

## 15. [Sequential Dexterity: Chaining Dexterous Policies for Long-Horizon
  Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.00987)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.00987](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00987)

**Authors**: Yuanpei Chen, Chen Wang, Li Fei-Fei, C. Karen Liu

**Published**: 2023-09-02 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-06 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

### Abstract

Many real-world manipulation tasks consist of a series of subtasks that are
significantly different from one another. Such long-horizon, complex tasks
highlight the potential of dexterous hands, which possess adaptability and
versatility, capable of seamlessly transitioning between different modes of
functionality without the need for re-grasping or external tools. However, the
challenges arise due to the high-dimensional action space of dexterous hand and
complex compositional dynamics of the long-horizon tasks. We present Sequential
Dexterity, a general system based on reinforcement learning (RL) that chains
multiple dexterous policies for achieving long-horizon task goals. The core of
the system is a transition feasibility function that progressively finetunes
the sub-policies for enhancing chaining success rate, while also enables
autonomous policy-switching for recovery from failures and bypassing redundant
stages. Despite being trained only in simulation with a few task objects, our
system demonstrates generalization capability to novel object shapes and is
able to zero-shot transfer to a real-world robot equipped with a dexterous
hand. More details and video results could be found at
https://sequential-dexterity.github.io

---
