# Daily Papers - 2023-09-21

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-21)

Total papers: 9

---

## 1. [LMDX: Language Model-based Document Information Extraction and
  Localization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.10952)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.10952](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10952)

**Authors**: Vincent Perot, Kai Kang, Florian Luisier, Guolong Su, Xiaoyu Sun, Ramya Sree Boppana, Zilong Wang, Jiaqi Mu, Hao Zhang, Nan Hua

**Published**: 2023-09-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 67

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLM) have revolutionized Natural Language Processing
(NLP), improving state-of-the-art on many existing tasks and exhibiting
emergent capabilities. However, LLMs have not yet been successfully applied on
semi-structured document information extraction, which is at the core of many
document processing workflows and consists of extracting key entities from a
visually rich document (VRD) given a predefined target schema. The main
obstacles to LLM adoption in that task have been the absence of layout encoding
within LLMs, critical for a high quality extraction, and the lack of a
grounding mechanism ensuring the answer is not hallucinated. In this paper, we
introduce Language Model-based Document Information Extraction and Localization
(LMDX), a methodology to adapt arbitrary LLMs for document information
extraction. LMDX can do extraction of singular, repeated, and hierarchical
entities, both with and without training data, while providing grounding
guarantees and localizing the entities within the document. In particular, we
apply LMDX to the PaLM 2-S LLM and evaluate it on VRDU and CORD benchmarks,
setting a new state-of-the-art and showing how LMDX enables the creation of
high quality, data-efficient parsers.

---

## 2. [FreeU: Free Lunch in Diffusion U-Net](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.11497)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.11497](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11497)

**Authors**: Chenyang Si, Ziqi Huang, Yuming Jiang, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2023-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 66

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/ChenyangSi/FreeU)

### Abstract

In this paper, we uncover the untapped potential of diffusion U-Net, which
serves as a "free lunch" that substantially improves the generation quality on
the fly. We initially investigate the key contributions of the U-Net
architecture to the denoising process and identify that its main backbone
primarily contributes to denoising, whereas its skip connections mainly
introduce high-frequency features into the decoder module, causing the network
to overlook the backbone semantics. Capitalizing on this discovery, we propose
a simple yet effective method-termed "FreeU" - that enhances generation quality
without additional training or finetuning. Our key insight is to strategically
re-weight the contributions sourced from the U-Net's skip connections and
backbone feature maps, to leverage the strengths of both components of the
U-Net architecture. Promising results on image and video generation tasks
demonstrate that our FreeU can be readily integrated to existing diffusion
models, e.g., Stable Diffusion, DreamBooth, ModelScope, Rerender and ReVersion,
to improve the generation quality with only a few lines of code. All you need
is to adjust two scaling factors during inference. Project page:
https://chenyangsi.top/FreeU/.

---

## 3. [DreamLLM: Synergistic Multimodal Comprehension and Creation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.11499)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.11499](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11499)

**Authors**: Runpei Dong, Chunrui Han, Yuang Peng, Zekun Qi, Zheng Ge, Jinrong Yang, Liang Zhao, Jianjian Sun, Hongyu Zhou, Haoran Wei, Xiangwen Kong, Xiangyu Zhang, Kaisheng Ma, Li Yi

**Published**: 2023-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 60

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/RunpeiDong/DreamLLM)

### Abstract

This paper presents DreamLLM, a learning framework that first achieves
versatile Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) empowered with frequently
overlooked synergy between multimodal comprehension and creation. DreamLLM
operates on two fundamental principles. The first focuses on the generative
modeling of both language and image posteriors by direct sampling in the raw
multimodal space. This approach circumvents the limitations and information
loss inherent to external feature extractors like CLIP, and a more thorough
multimodal understanding is obtained. Second, DreamLLM fosters the generation
of raw, interleaved documents, modeling both text and image contents, along
with unstructured layouts. This allows DreamLLM to learn all conditional,
marginal, and joint multimodal distributions effectively. As a result, DreamLLM
is the first MLLM capable of generating free-form interleaved content.
Comprehensive experiments highlight DreamLLM's superior performance as a
zero-shot multimodal generalist, reaping from the enhanced learning synergy.

---

## 4. [Kosmos-2.5: A Multimodal Literate Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.11419)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.11419](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11419)

**Authors**: Tengchao Lv, Yupan Huang, Jingye Chen, Lei Cui, Shuming Ma, Yaoyao Chang, Shaohan Huang, Wenhui Wang, Li Dong, Weiyao Luo, Shaoxiang Wu, Guoxin Wang, Cha Zhang, Furu Wei

**Published**: 2023-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 56

### Abstract

We present Kosmos-2.5, a multimodal literate model for machine reading of
text-intensive images. Pre-trained on large-scale text-intensive images,
Kosmos-2.5 excels in two distinct yet cooperative transcription tasks: (1)
generating spatially-aware text blocks, where each block of text is assigned
its spatial coordinates within the image, and (2) producing structured text
output that captures styles and structures into the markdown format. This
unified multimodal literate capability is achieved through a shared Transformer
architecture, task-specific prompts, and flexible text representations. We
evaluate Kosmos-2.5 on end-to-end document-level text recognition and
image-to-markdown text generation. Furthermore, the model can be readily
adapted for any text-intensive image understanding task with different prompts
through supervised fine-tuning, making it a general-purpose tool for real-world
applications involving text-rich images. This work also paves the way for the
future scaling of multimodal large language models.

---

## 5. [Chain-of-Verification Reduces Hallucination in Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.11495)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.11495](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11495)

**Authors**: Shehzaad Dhuliawala, Mojtaba Komeili, Jing Xu, Roberta Raileanu, Xian Li, Asli Celikyilmaz, Jason Weston

**Published**: 2023-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 40

### Abstract

Generation of plausible yet incorrect factual information, termed
hallucination, is an unsolved issue in large language models. We study the
ability of language models to deliberate on the responses they give in order to
correct their mistakes. We develop the Chain-of-Verification (CoVe) method
whereby the model first (i) drafts an initial response; then (ii) plans
verification questions to fact-check its draft; (iii) answers those questions
independently so the answers are not biased by other responses; and (iv)
generates its final verified response. In experiments, we show CoVe decreases
hallucinations across a variety of tasks, from list-based questions from
Wikidata, closed book MultiSpanQA and longform text generation.

---

## 6. [A Large-scale Dataset for Audio-Language Representation Learning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.11500)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.11500](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11500)

**Authors**: Luoyi Sun, Xuenan Xu, Mengyue Wu, Weidi Xie

**Published**: 2023-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

The AI community has made significant strides in developing powerful
foundation models, driven by large-scale multimodal datasets. However, in the
audio representation learning community, the present audio-language datasets
suffer from limitations such as insufficient volume, simplistic content, and
arduous collection procedures. To tackle these challenges, we present an
innovative and automatic audio caption generation pipeline based on a series of
public tools or APIs, and construct a large-scale, high-quality, audio-language
dataset, named as Auto-ACD, comprising over 1.9M audio-text pairs. To
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed dataset, we train popular models
on our dataset and show performance improvement on various downstream tasks,
namely, audio-language retrieval, audio captioning, environment classification.
In addition, we establish a novel test set and provide a benchmark for
audio-text tasks. The proposed dataset will be released at
https://auto-acd.github.io/.

---

## 7. [End-to-End Speech Recognition Contextualization with Large Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.10917)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.10917](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10917)

**Authors**: Egor Lakomkin, Chunyang Wu, Yassir Fathullah, Ozlem Kalinli, Michael L. Seltzer, Christian Fuegen

**Published**: 2023-09-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered significant
attention from the research community due to their exceptional performance and
generalization capabilities. In this paper, we introduce a novel method for
contextualizing speech recognition models incorporating LLMs. Our approach
casts speech recognition as a mixed-modal language modeling task based on a
pretrained LLM. We provide audio features, along with optional text tokens for
context, to train the system to complete transcriptions in a decoder-only
fashion. As a result, the system is implicitly incentivized to learn how to
leverage unstructured contextual information during training. Our empirical
results demonstrate a significant improvement in performance, with a 6% WER
reduction when additional textual context is provided. Moreover, we find that
our method performs competitively and improve by 7.5% WER overall and 17% WER
on rare words against a baseline contextualized RNN-T system that has been
trained on more than twenty five times larger speech dataset. Overall, we
demonstrate that by only adding a handful number of trainable parameters via
adapters, we can unlock contextualized speech recognition capability for the
pretrained LLM while keeping the same text-only input functionality.

---

## 8. [The Languini Kitchen: Enabling Language Modelling Research at Different
  Scales of Compute](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.11197)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.11197](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11197)

**Authors**: Aleksandar Stanić, Dylan Ashley, Oleg Serikov, Louis Kirsch, Francesco Faccio, Jürgen Schmidhuber, Thomas Hofmann, Imanol Schlag

**Published**: 2023-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 5

### Abstract

The Languini Kitchen serves as both a research collective and codebase
designed to empower researchers with limited computational resources to
contribute meaningfully to the field of language modelling. We introduce an
experimental protocol that enables model comparisons based on equivalent
compute, measured in accelerator hours. The number of tokens on which a model
is trained is defined by the model's throughput and the chosen compute class.
Notably, this approach avoids constraints on critical hyperparameters which
affect total parameters or floating-point operations. For evaluation, we
pre-process an existing large, diverse, and high-quality dataset of books that
surpasses existing academic benchmarks in quality, diversity, and document
length. On it, we compare methods based on their empirical scaling trends which
are estimated through experiments at various levels of compute. This work also
provides two baseline models: a feed-forward model derived from the GPT-2
architecture and a recurrent model in the form of a novel LSTM with ten-fold
throughput. While the GPT baseline achieves better perplexity throughout all
our levels of compute, our LSTM baseline exhibits a predictable and more
favourable scaling law. This is due to the improved throughput and the need for
fewer training tokens to achieve the same decrease in test perplexity.
Extrapolating the scaling laws leads of both models results in an intersection
at roughly 50,000 accelerator hours. We hope this work can serve as the
foundation for meaningful and reproducible language modelling research.

---

## 9. [Controllable Dynamic Appearance for Neural 3D Portraits](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.11009)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.11009](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11009)

**Authors**: ShahRukh Athar, Zhixin Shu, Zexiang Xu, Fuji Luan, Sai Bi, Kalyan Sunkavalli, Dimitris Samaras

**Published**: 2023-09-20 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-21 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Recent advances in Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have made it possible to
reconstruct and reanimate dynamic portrait scenes with control over head-pose,
facial expressions and viewing direction. However, training such models assumes
photometric consistency over the deformed region e.g. the face must be evenly
lit as it deforms with changing head-pose and facial expression. Such
photometric consistency across frames of a video is hard to maintain, even in
studio environments, thus making the created reanimatable neural portraits
prone to artifacts during reanimation. In this work, we propose CoDyNeRF, a
system that enables the creation of fully controllable 3D portraits in
real-world capture conditions. CoDyNeRF learns to approximate illumination
dependent effects via a dynamic appearance model in the canonical space that is
conditioned on predicted surface normals and the facial expressions and
head-pose deformations. The surface normals prediction is guided using 3DMM
normals that act as a coarse prior for the normals of the human head, where
direct prediction of normals is hard due to rigid and non-rigid deformations
induced by head-pose and facial expression changes. Using only a
smartphone-captured short video of a subject for training, we demonstrate the
effectiveness of our method on free view synthesis of a portrait scene with
explicit head pose and expression controls, and realistic lighting effects. The
project page can be found here:
http://shahrukhathar.github.io/2023/08/22/CoDyNeRF.html

---
