# Daily Papers - 2023-09-25

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-25)

Total papers: 4

---

## 1. [DualToken-ViT: Position-aware Efficient Vision Transformer with Dual
  Token Fusion](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.12424)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.12424](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12424)

**Authors**: Zhenzhen Chu, Jiayu Chen, Cen Chen, Chengyu Wang, Ziheng Wu, Jun Huang, Weining Qian

**Published**: 2023-09-21 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Self-attention-based vision transformers (ViTs) have emerged as a highly
competitive architecture in computer vision. Unlike convolutional neural
networks (CNNs), ViTs are capable of global information sharing. With the
development of various structures of ViTs, ViTs are increasingly advantageous
for many vision tasks. However, the quadratic complexity of self-attention
renders ViTs computationally intensive, and their lack of inductive biases of
locality and translation equivariance demands larger model sizes compared to
CNNs to effectively learn visual features. In this paper, we propose a
light-weight and efficient vision transformer model called DualToken-ViT that
leverages the advantages of CNNs and ViTs. DualToken-ViT effectively fuses the
token with local information obtained by convolution-based structure and the
token with global information obtained by self-attention-based structure to
achieve an efficient attention structure. In addition, we use position-aware
global tokens throughout all stages to enrich the global information, which
further strengthening the effect of DualToken-ViT. Position-aware global tokens
also contain the position information of the image, which makes our model
better for vision tasks. We conducted extensive experiments on image
classification, object detection and semantic segmentation tasks to demonstrate
the effectiveness of DualToken-ViT. On the ImageNet-1K dataset, our models of
different scales achieve accuracies of 75.4% and 79.4% with only 0.5G and 1.0G
FLOPs, respectively, and our model with 1.0G FLOPs outperforms LightViT-T using
global tokens by 0.7%.

---

## 2. [MosaicFusion: Diffusion Models as Data Augmenters for Large Vocabulary
  Instance Segmentation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.13042)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.13042](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.13042)

**Authors**: Jiahao Xie, Wei Li, Xiangtai Li, Ziwei Liu, Yew Soon Ong, Chen Change Loy

**Published**: 2023-09-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jiahao000/mosaicfusion)

### Abstract

We present MosaicFusion, a simple yet effective diffusion-based data
augmentation approach for large vocabulary instance segmentation. Our method is
training-free and does not rely on any label supervision. Two key designs
enable us to employ an off-the-shelf text-to-image diffusion model as a useful
dataset generator for object instances and mask annotations. First, we divide
an image canvas into several regions and perform a single round of diffusion
process to generate multiple instances simultaneously, conditioning on
different text prompts. Second, we obtain corresponding instance masks by
aggregating cross-attention maps associated with object prompts across layers
and diffusion time steps, followed by simple thresholding and edge-aware
refinement processing. Without bells and whistles, our MosaicFusion can produce
a significant amount of synthetic labeled data for both rare and novel
categories. Experimental results on the challenging LVIS long-tailed and
open-vocabulary benchmarks demonstrate that MosaicFusion can significantly
improve the performance of existing instance segmentation models, especially
for rare and novel categories. Code will be released at
https://github.com/Jiahao000/MosaicFusion.

---

## 3. [Robotic Offline RL from Internet Videos via Value-Function Pre-Training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.13041)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.13041](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.13041)

**Authors**: Chethan Bhateja, Derek Guo, Dibya Ghosh, Anikait Singh, Manan Tomar, Quan Vuong, Yevgen Chebotar, Sergey Levine, Aviral Kumar

**Published**: 2023-09-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Pre-training on Internet data has proven to be a key ingredient for broad
generalization in many modern ML systems. What would it take to enable such
capabilities in robotic reinforcement learning (RL)? Offline RL methods, which
learn from datasets of robot experience, offer one way to leverage prior data
into the robotic learning pipeline. However, these methods have a "type
mismatch" with video data (such as Ego4D), the largest prior datasets available
for robotics, since video offers observation-only experience without the action
or reward annotations needed for RL methods. In this paper, we develop a system
for leveraging large-scale human video datasets in robotic offline RL, based
entirely on learning value functions via temporal-difference learning. We show
that value learning on video datasets learns representations that are more
conducive to downstream robotic offline RL than other approaches for learning
from video data. Our system, called V-PTR, combines the benefits of
pre-training on video data with robotic offline RL approaches that train on
diverse robot data, resulting in value functions and policies for manipulation
tasks that perform better, act robustly, and generalize broadly. On several
manipulation tasks on a real WidowX robot, our framework produces policies that
greatly improve over prior methods. Our video and additional details can be
found at https://dibyaghosh.com/vptr/

---

## 4. [Dynamic ASR Pathways: An Adaptive Masking Approach Towards Efficient
  Pruning of A Multilingual ASR Model](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.13018)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.13018](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.13018)

**Authors**: Jiamin Xie, Ke Li, Jinxi Guo, Andros Tjandra, Yuan Shangguan, Leda Sari, Chunyang Wu, Junteng Jia, Jay Mahadeokar, Ozlem Kalinli

**Published**: 2023-09-22 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-25 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Neural network pruning offers an effective method for compressing a
multilingual automatic speech recognition (ASR) model with minimal performance
loss. However, it entails several rounds of pruning and re-training needed to
be run for each language. In this work, we propose the use of an adaptive
masking approach in two scenarios for pruning a multilingual ASR model
efficiently, each resulting in sparse monolingual models or a sparse
multilingual model (named as Dynamic ASR Pathways). Our approach dynamically
adapts the sub-network, avoiding premature decisions about a fixed sub-network
structure. We show that our approach outperforms existing pruning methods when
targeting sparse monolingual models. Further, we illustrate that Dynamic ASR
Pathways jointly discovers and trains better sub-networks (pathways) of a
single multilingual model by adapting from different sub-network
initializations, thereby reducing the need for language-specific pruning.

---
