# Daily Papers - 2023-09-18

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-18)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [Connecting Large Language Models with Evolutionary Algorithms Yields
  Powerful Prompt Optimizers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.08532)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.08532](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08532)

**Authors**: Qingyan Guo, Rui Wang, Junliang Guo, Bei Li, Kaitao Song, Xu Tan, Guoqing Liu, Jiang Bian, Yujiu Yang

**Published**: 2023-09-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 54

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/beeevita/EvoPrompt)

### Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in various tasks, but they rely on
carefully crafted prompts that often demand substantial human effort. To
automate this process, in this paper, we propose a novel framework for discrete
prompt optimization, called EvoPrompt, which borrows the idea of evolutionary
algorithms (EAs) as they exhibit good performance and fast convergence. To
enable EAs to work on discrete prompts, which are natural language expressions
that need to be coherent and human-readable, we connect LLMs with EAs. This
approach allows us to simultaneously leverage the powerful language processing
capabilities of LLMs and the efficient optimization performance of EAs.
Specifically, abstaining from any gradients or parameters, EvoPrompt starts
from a population of prompts and iteratively generates new prompts with LLMs
based on the evolutionary operators, improving the population based on the
development set. We optimize prompts for both closed- and open-source LLMs
including GPT-3.5 and Alpaca, on 9 datasets spanning language understanding and
generation tasks. EvoPrompt significantly outperforms human-engineered prompts
and existing methods for automatic prompt generation by up to 25% and 14%
respectively. Furthermore, EvoPrompt demonstrates that connecting LLMs with EAs
creates synergies, which could inspire further research on the combination of
LLMs and conventional algorithms.

---

## 2. [Replacing softmax with ReLU in Vision Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.08586)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.08586](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08586)

**Authors**: Mitchell Wortsman, Jaehoon Lee, Justin Gilmer, Simon Kornblith

**Published**: 2023-09-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

### Abstract

Previous research observed accuracy degradation when replacing the attention
softmax with a point-wise activation such as ReLU. In the context of vision
transformers, we find that this degradation is mitigated when dividing by
sequence length. Our experiments training small to large vision transformers on
ImageNet-21k indicate that ReLU-attention can approach or match the performance
of softmax-attention in terms of scaling behavior as a function of compute.

---

## 3. [Sparse Autoencoders Find Highly Interpretable Features in Language
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.08600)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.08600](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08600)

**Authors**: Hoagy Cunningham, Aidan Ewart, Logan Riggs, Robert Huben, Lee Sharkey

**Published**: 2023-09-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/hoagyc/sparse_coding)

### Abstract

One of the roadblocks to a better understanding of neural networks' internals
is polysemanticity, where neurons appear to activate in multiple,
semantically distinct contexts. Polysemanticity prevents us from identifying
concise, human-understandable explanations for what neural networks are doing
internally. One hypothesised cause of polysemanticity is
superposition, where neural networks represent more features than they
have neurons by assigning features to an overcomplete set of directions in
activation space, rather than to individual neurons. Here, we attempt to
identify those directions, using sparse autoencoders to reconstruct the
internal activations of a language model. These autoencoders learn sets of
sparsely activating features that are more interpretable and monosemantic than
directions identified by alternative approaches, where interpretability is
measured by automated methods. Ablating these features enables precise model
editing, for example, by removing capabilities such as pronoun prediction,
while disrupting model behaviour less than prior techniques. This work
indicates that it is possible to resolve superposition in language models using
a scalable, unsupervised method. Our method may serve as a foundation for
future mechanistic interpretability work, which we hope will enable greater
model transparency and steerability.

---

## 4. [Scaling Laws for Sparsely-Connected Foundation Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.08520)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.08520](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08520)

**Authors**: Elias Frantar, Carlos Riquelme, Neil Houlsby, Dan Alistarh, Utku Evci

**Published**: 2023-09-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

We explore the impact of parameter sparsity on the scaling behavior of
Transformers trained on massive datasets (i.e., "foundation models"), in both
vision and language domains. In this setting, we identify the first scaling law
describing the relationship between weight sparsity, number of non-zero
parameters, and amount of training data, which we validate empirically across
model and data scales; on ViT/JFT-4B and T5/C4. These results allow us to
characterize the "optimal sparsity", the sparsity level which yields the best
performance for a given effective model size and training budget. For a fixed
number of non-zero parameters, we identify that the optimal sparsity increases
with the amount of data used for training. We also extend our study to
different sparsity structures (such as the hardware-friendly n:m pattern) and
strategies (such as starting from a pretrained dense model). Our findings shed
light on the power and limitations of weight sparsity across various parameter
and computational settings, offering both theoretical understanding and
practical implications for leveraging sparsity towards computational efficiency
improvements.

---

## 5. [Compositional Foundation Models for Hierarchical Planning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.08587)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.08587](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08587)

**Authors**: Anurag Ajay, Seungwook Han, Yilun Du, Shaung Li, Abhi Gupta, Tommi Jaakkola, Josh Tenenbaum, Leslie Kaelbling, Akash Srivastava, Pulkit Agrawal

**Published**: 2023-09-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

To make effective decisions in novel environments with long-horizon goals, it
is crucial to engage in hierarchical reasoning across spatial and temporal
scales. This entails planning abstract subgoal sequences, visually reasoning
about the underlying plans, and executing actions in accordance with the
devised plan through visual-motor control. We propose Compositional Foundation
Models for Hierarchical Planning (HiP), a foundation model which leverages
multiple expert foundation model trained on language, vision and action data
individually jointly together to solve long-horizon tasks. We use a large
language model to construct symbolic plans that are grounded in the environment
through a large video diffusion model. Generated video plans are then grounded
to visual-motor control, through an inverse dynamics model that infers actions
from generated videos. To enable effective reasoning within this hierarchy, we
enforce consistency between the models via iterative refinement. We illustrate
the efficacy and adaptability of our approach in three different long-horizon
table-top manipulation tasks.

---

## 6. [Retrieval-Augmented Text-to-Audio Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.08051)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.08051](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08051)

**Authors**: Yi Yuan, Haohe Liu, Xubo Liu, Qiushi Huang, Mark D. Plumbley, Wenwu Wang

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

Despite recent progress in text-to-audio (TTA) generation, we show that the
state-of-the-art models, such as AudioLDM, trained on datasets with an
imbalanced class distribution, such as AudioCaps, are biased in their
generation performance. Specifically, they excel in generating common audio
classes while underperforming in the rare ones, thus degrading the overall
generation performance. We refer to this problem as long-tailed text-to-audio
generation. To address this issue, we propose a simple retrieval-augmented
approach for TTA models. Specifically, given an input text prompt, we first
leverage a Contrastive Language Audio Pretraining (CLAP) model to retrieve
relevant text-audio pairs. The features of the retrieved audio-text data are
then used as additional conditions to guide the learning of TTA models. We
enhance AudioLDM with our proposed approach and denote the resulting augmented
system as Re-AudioLDM. On the AudioCaps dataset, Re-AudioLDM achieves a
state-of-the-art Frechet Audio Distance (FAD) of 1.37, outperforming the
existing approaches by a large margin. Furthermore, we show that Re-AudioLDM
can generate realistic audio for complex scenes, rare audio classes, and even
unseen audio types, indicating its potential in TTA tasks.

---

## 7. [Viewpoint Textual Inversion: Unleashing Novel View Synthesis with
  Pretrained 2D Diffusion Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07986)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07986](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07986)

**Authors**: James Burgess, Kuan-Chieh Wang, Serena Yeung

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-18 by AK

**Upvotes**: 4

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/jmhb0/view_neti)

### Abstract

Text-to-image diffusion models understand spatial relationship between
objects, but do they represent the true 3D structure of the world from only 2D
supervision? We demonstrate that yes, 3D knowledge is encoded in 2D image
diffusion models like Stable Diffusion, and we show that this structure can be
exploited for 3D vision tasks. Our method, Viewpoint Neural Textual Inversion
(ViewNeTI), controls the 3D viewpoint of objects in generated images from
frozen diffusion models. We train a small neural mapper to take camera
viewpoint parameters and predict text encoder latents; the latents then
condition the diffusion generation process to produce images with the desired
camera viewpoint.
  ViewNeTI naturally addresses Novel View Synthesis (NVS). By leveraging the
frozen diffusion model as a prior, we can solve NVS with very few input views;
we can even do single-view novel view synthesis. Our single-view NVS
predictions have good semantic details and photorealism compared to prior
methods. Our approach is well suited for modeling the uncertainty inherent in
sparse 3D vision problems because it can efficiently generate diverse samples.
Our view-control mechanism is general, and can even change the camera view in
images generated by user-defined prompts.

---
