# Daily Papers - 2023-09-14

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-14)

Total papers: 7

---

## 1. [MagiCapture: High-Resolution Multi-Concept Portrait Customization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.06895)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.06895](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06895)

**Authors**: Junha Hyung, Jaeyo Shin, Jaegul Choo

**Published**: 2023-09-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 28

### Abstract

Large-scale text-to-image models including Stable Diffusion are capable of
generating high-fidelity photorealistic portrait images. There is an active
research area dedicated to personalizing these models, aiming to synthesize
specific subjects or styles using provided sets of reference images. However,
despite the plausible results from these personalization methods, they tend to
produce images that often fall short of realism and are not yet on a
commercially viable level. This is particularly noticeable in portrait image
generation, where any unnatural artifact in human faces is easily discernible
due to our inherent human bias. To address this, we introduce MagiCapture, a
personalization method for integrating subject and style concepts to generate
high-resolution portrait images using just a few subject and style references.
For instance, given a handful of random selfies, our fine-tuned model can
generate high-quality portrait images in specific styles, such as passport or
profile photos. The main challenge with this task is the absence of ground
truth for the composed concepts, leading to a reduction in the quality of the
final output and an identity shift of the source subject. To address these
issues, we present a novel Attention Refocusing loss coupled with auxiliary
priors, both of which facilitate robust learning within this weakly supervised
learning setting. Our pipeline also includes additional post-processing steps
to ensure the creation of highly realistic outputs. MagiCapture outperforms
other baselines in both quantitative and qualitative evaluations and can also
be generalized to other non-human objects.

---

## 2. [Large Language Models for Compiler Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07062)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07062](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07062)

**Authors**: Chris Cummins, Volker Seeker, Dejan Grubisic, Mostafa Elhoushi, Youwei Liang, Baptiste Roziere, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Kim Hazelwood, Gabriel Synnaeve, Hugh Leather

**Published**: 2023-09-11 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 25

### Abstract

We explore the novel application of Large Language Models to code
optimization. We present a 7B-parameter transformer model trained from scratch
to optimize LLVM assembly for code size. The model takes as input unoptimized
assembly and outputs a list of compiler options to best optimize the program.
Crucially, during training, we ask the model to predict the instruction counts
before and after optimization, and the optimized code itself. These auxiliary
learning tasks significantly improve the optimization performance of the model
and improve the model's depth of understanding.
  We evaluate on a large suite of test programs. Our approach achieves a 3.0%
improvement in reducing instruction counts over the compiler, outperforming two
state-of-the-art baselines that require thousands of compilations. Furthermore,
the model shows surprisingly strong code reasoning abilities, generating
compilable code 91% of the time and perfectly emulating the output of the
compiler 70% of the time.

---

## 3. [Dynamic NeRFs for Soccer Scenes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.06802)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.06802](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06802)

**Authors**: Sacha Lewin, Maxime Vandegar, Thomas Hoyoux, Olivier Barnich, Gilles Louppe

**Published**: 2023-09-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/iSach/SoccerNeRFs) | [Project Page](https://soccernerfs.isach.be)

### Abstract

The long-standing problem of novel view synthesis has many applications,
notably in sports broadcasting. Photorealistic novel view synthesis of soccer
actions, in particular, is of enormous interest to the broadcast industry. Yet
only a few industrial solutions have been proposed, and even fewer that achieve
near-broadcast quality of the synthetic replays. Except for their setup of
multiple static cameras around the playfield, the best proprietary systems
disclose close to no information about their inner workings. Leveraging
multiple static cameras for such a task indeed presents a challenge rarely
tackled in the literature, for a lack of public datasets: the reconstruction of
a large-scale, mostly static environment, with small, fast-moving elements.
Recently, the emergence of neural radiance fields has induced stunning progress
in many novel view synthesis applications, leveraging deep learning principles
to produce photorealistic results in the most challenging settings. In this
work, we investigate the feasibility of basing a solution to the task on
dynamic NeRFs, i.e., neural models purposed to reconstruct general dynamic
content. We compose synthetic soccer environments and conduct multiple
experiments using them, identifying key components that help reconstruct soccer
scenes with dynamic NeRFs. We show that, although this approach cannot fully
meet the quality requirements for the target application, it suggests promising
avenues toward a cost-efficient, automatic solution. We also make our work
dataset and code publicly available, with the goal to encourage further efforts
from the research community on the task of novel view synthesis for dynamic
soccer scenes. For code, data, and video results, please see
https://soccernerfs.isach.be.

---

## 4. [Statistical Rejection Sampling Improves Preference Optimization](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.06657)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.06657](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06657)

**Authors**: Tianqi Liu, Yao Zhao, Rishabh Joshi, Misha Khalman, Mohammad Saleh, Peter J. Liu, Jialu Liu

**Published**: 2023-09-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

Improving the alignment of language models with human preferences remains an
active research challenge. Previous approaches have primarily utilized
Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) via online RL methods such as
Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO). Recently, offline methods such as Sequence
Likelihood Calibration (SLiC) and Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) have
emerged as attractive alternatives, offering improvements in stability and
scalability while maintaining competitive performance. SLiC refines its loss
function using sequence pairs sampled from a supervised fine-tuned (SFT)
policy, while DPO directly optimizes language models based on preference data,
foregoing the need for a separate reward model. However, the maximum likelihood
estimator (MLE) of the target optimal policy requires labeled preference pairs
sampled from that policy. DPO's lack of a reward model constrains its ability
to sample preference pairs from the optimal policy, and SLiC is restricted to
sampling preference pairs only from the SFT policy. To address these
limitations, we introduce a novel approach called Statistical Rejection
Sampling Optimization (RSO) that aims to source preference data from the target
optimal policy using rejection sampling, enabling a more accurate estimation of
the optimal policy. We also propose a unified framework that enhances the loss
functions used in both SLiC and DPO from a preference modeling standpoint.
Through extensive experiments across three diverse tasks, we demonstrate that
RSO consistently outperforms both SLiC and DPO on evaluations from both Large
Language Model (LLM) and human raters.

---

## 5. [DreamStyler: Paint by Style Inversion with Text-to-Image Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.06933)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.06933](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06933)

**Authors**: Namhyuk Ahn, Junsoo Lee, Chunggi Lee, Daesik Kim, Seung-Hun Nam, Kibeom Hong

**Published**: 2023-09-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

### Abstract

Recent progresses in large-scale text-to-image models have yielded remarkable
accomplishments, finding various applications in art domain. However,
expressing unique characteristics of an artwork (e.g. brushwork, colortone, or
composition) with text prompts alone may encounter limitations due to the
inherent constraints of verbal description. To this end, we introduce
DreamStyler, a novel framework designed for artistic image synthesis,
proficient in both text-to-image synthesis and style transfer. DreamStyler
optimizes a multi-stage textual embedding with a context-aware text prompt,
resulting in prominent image quality. In addition, with content and style
guidance, DreamStyler exhibits flexibility to accommodate a range of style
references. Experimental results demonstrate its superior performance across
multiple scenarios, suggesting its promising potential in artistic product
creation.

---

## 6. [Tree-Structured Shading Decomposition](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07122)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07122](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07122)

**Authors**: Chen Geng, Hong-Xing Yu, Sharon Zhang, Maneesh Agrawala, Jiajun Wu

**Published**: 2023-09-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

### Abstract

We study inferring a tree-structured representation from a single image for
object shading. Prior work typically uses the parametric or measured
representation to model shading, which is neither interpretable nor easily
editable. We propose using the shade tree representation, which combines basic
shading nodes and compositing methods to factorize object surface shading. The
shade tree representation enables novice users who are unfamiliar with the
physical shading process to edit object shading in an efficient and intuitive
manner. A main challenge in inferring the shade tree is that the inference
problem involves both the discrete tree structure and the continuous parameters
of the tree nodes. We propose a hybrid approach to address this issue. We
introduce an auto-regressive inference model to generate a rough estimation of
the tree structure and node parameters, and then we fine-tune the inferred
shade tree through an optimization algorithm. We show experiments on synthetic
images, captured reflectance, real images, and non-realistic vector drawings,
allowing downstream applications such as material editing, vectorized shading,
and relighting. Project website: https://chen-geng.com/inv-shade-trees

---

## 7. [Text-Guided Generation and Editing of Compositional 3D Avatars](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07125)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07125](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07125)

**Authors**: Hao Zhang, Yao Feng, Peter Kulits, Yandong Wen, Justus Thies, Michael J. Black

**Published**: 2023-09-13 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-14 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

Our goal is to create a realistic 3D facial avatar with hair and accessories
using only a text description. While this challenge has attracted significant
recent interest, existing methods either lack realism, produce unrealistic
shapes, or do not support editing, such as modifications to the hairstyle. We
argue that existing methods are limited because they employ a monolithic
modeling approach, using a single representation for the head, face, hair, and
accessories. Our observation is that the hair and face, for example, have very
different structural qualities that benefit from different representations.
Building on this insight, we generate avatars with a compositional model, in
which the head, face, and upper body are represented with traditional 3D
meshes, and the hair, clothing, and accessories with neural radiance fields
(NeRF). The model-based mesh representation provides a strong geometric prior
for the face region, improving realism while enabling editing of the person's
appearance. By using NeRFs to represent the remaining components, our method is
able to model and synthesize parts with complex geometry and appearance, such
as curly hair and fluffy scarves. Our novel system synthesizes these
high-quality compositional avatars from text descriptions. The experimental
results demonstrate that our method, Text-guided generation and Editing of
Compositional Avatars (TECA), produces avatars that are more realistic than
those of recent methods while being editable because of their compositional
nature. For example, our TECA enables the seamless transfer of compositional
features like hairstyles, scarves, and other accessories between avatars. This
capability supports applications such as virtual try-on.

---
