# Daily Papers - 2023-09-11

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-11)

Total papers: 3

---

## 1. [Large-Scale Automatic Audiobook Creation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.03926)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.03926](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.03926)

**Authors**: Brendan Walsh, Mark Hamilton, Greg Newby, Xi Wang, Serena Ruan, Sheng Zhao, Lei He, Shaofei Zhang, Eric Dettinger, William T. Freeman, Markus Weimer

**Published**: 2023-09-07 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 56

### Abstract

An audiobook can dramatically improve a work of literature's accessibility
and improve reader engagement. However, audiobooks can take hundreds of hours
of human effort to create, edit, and publish. In this work, we present a system
that can automatically generate high-quality audiobooks from online e-books. In
particular, we leverage recent advances in neural text-to-speech to create and
release thousands of human-quality, open-license audiobooks from the Project
Gutenberg e-book collection. Our method can identify the proper subset of
e-book content to read for a wide collection of diversely structured books and
can operate on hundreds of books in parallel. Our system allows users to
customize an audiobook's speaking speed and style, emotional intonation, and
can even match a desired voice using a small amount of sample audio. This work
contributed over five thousand open-license audiobooks and an interactive demo
that allows users to quickly create their own customized audiobooks. To listen
to the audiobook collection visit https://aka.ms/audiobook.

---

## 2. [Mobile V-MoEs: Scaling Down Vision Transformers via Sparse
  Mixture-of-Experts](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.04354)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.04354](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04354)

**Authors**: Erik Daxberger, Floris Weers, Bowen Zhang, Tom Gunter, Ruoming Pang, Marcin Eichner, Michael Emmersberger, Yinfei Yang, Alexander Toshev, Xianzhi Du

**Published**: 2023-09-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

### Abstract

Sparse Mixture-of-Experts models (MoEs) have recently gained popularity due
to their ability to decouple model size from inference efficiency by only
activating a small subset of the model parameters for any given input token. As
such, sparse MoEs have enabled unprecedented scalability, resulting in
tremendous successes across domains such as natural language processing and
computer vision. In this work, we instead explore the use of sparse MoEs to
scale-down Vision Transformers (ViTs) to make them more attractive for
resource-constrained vision applications. To this end, we propose a simplified
and mobile-friendly MoE design where entire images rather than individual
patches are routed to the experts. We also propose a stable MoE training
procedure that uses super-class information to guide the router. We empirically
show that our sparse Mobile Vision MoEs (V-MoEs) can achieve a better trade-off
between performance and efficiency than the corresponding dense ViTs. For
example, for the ViT-Tiny model, our Mobile V-MoE outperforms its dense
counterpart by 3.39% on ImageNet-1k. For an even smaller ViT variant with only
54M FLOPs inference cost, our MoE achieves an improvement of 4.66%.

---

## 3. [Towards Practical Capture of High-Fidelity Relightable Avatars](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.04247)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.04247](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04247)

**Authors**: Haotian Yang, Mingwu Zheng, Wanquan Feng, Haibin Huang, Yu-Kun Lai, Pengfei Wan, Zhongyuan Wang, Chongyang Ma

**Published**: 2023-09-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-11 by AK

**Upvotes**: 10

### Abstract

In this paper, we propose a novel framework, Tracking-free Relightable Avatar
(TRAvatar), for capturing and reconstructing high-fidelity 3D avatars. Compared
to previous methods, TRAvatar works in a more practical and efficient setting.
Specifically, TRAvatar is trained with dynamic image sequences captured in a
Light Stage under varying lighting conditions, enabling realistic relighting
and real-time animation for avatars in diverse scenes. Additionally, TRAvatar
allows for tracking-free avatar capture and obviates the need for accurate
surface tracking under varying illumination conditions. Our contributions are
two-fold: First, we propose a novel network architecture that explicitly builds
on and ensures the satisfaction of the linear nature of lighting. Trained on
simple group light captures, TRAvatar can predict the appearance in real-time
with a single forward pass, achieving high-quality relighting effects under
illuminations of arbitrary environment maps. Second, we jointly optimize the
facial geometry and relightable appearance from scratch based on image
sequences, where the tracking is implicitly learned. This tracking-free
approach brings robustness for establishing temporal correspondences between
frames under different lighting conditions. Extensive qualitative and
quantitative experiments demonstrate that our framework achieves superior
performance for photorealistic avatar animation and relighting.

---
