# Daily Papers - 2023-09-10

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-10)

Total papers: 2

---

## 1. [From Sparse to Dense: GPT-4 Summarization with Chain of Density
  Prompting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.04269)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.04269](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04269)

**Authors**: Griffin Adams, Alexander Fabbri, Faisal Ladhak, Eric Lehman, Noémie Elhadad

**Published**: 2023-09-08 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 34

### Abstract

Selecting the ``right'' amount of information to include in a summary is a
difficult task. A good summary should be detailed and entity-centric without
being overly dense and hard to follow. To better understand this tradeoff, we
solicit increasingly dense GPT-4 summaries with what we refer to as a ``Chain
of Density'' (CoD) prompt. Specifically, GPT-4 generates an initial
entity-sparse summary before iteratively incorporating missing salient entities
without increasing the length. Summaries generated by CoD are more abstractive,
exhibit more fusion, and have less of a lead bias than GPT-4 summaries
generated by a vanilla prompt. We conduct a human preference study on 100 CNN
DailyMail articles and find that that humans prefer GPT-4 summaries that are
more dense than those generated by a vanilla prompt and almost as dense as
human written summaries. Qualitative analysis supports the notion that there
exists a tradeoff between informativeness and readability. 500 annotated CoD
summaries, as well as an extra 5,000 unannotated summaries, are freely
available on HuggingFace
(https://huggingface.co/datasets/griffin/chain_of_density).

---

## 2. [DrugChat: Towards Enabling ChatGPT-Like Capabilities on Drug Molecule
  Graphs](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.03907)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.03907](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.03907)

**Authors**: Youwei Liang, Ruiyi Zhang, Li Zhang, Pengtao Xie

**Published**: 2023-05-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-10 by AK

**Upvotes**: 12

### Abstract

A ChatGPT-like system for drug compounds could be a game-changer in
pharmaceutical research, accelerating drug discovery, enhancing our
understanding of structure-activity relationships, guiding lead optimization,
aiding drug repurposing, reducing the failure rate, and streamlining clinical
trials. In this work, we make an initial attempt towards enabling ChatGPT-like
capabilities on drug molecule graphs, by developing a prototype system
DrugChat. DrugChat works in a similar way as ChatGPT. Users upload a compound
molecule graph and ask various questions about this compound. DrugChat will
answer these questions in a multi-turn, interactive manner. The DrugChat system
consists of a graph neural network (GNN), a large language model (LLM), and an
adaptor. The GNN takes a compound molecule graph as input and learns a
representation for this graph. The adaptor transforms the graph representation
produced by the GNN into another representation that is acceptable to the LLM.
The LLM takes the compound representation transformed by the adaptor and users'
questions about this compound as inputs and generates answers. All these
components are trained end-to-end. To train DrugChat, we collected instruction
tuning datasets which contain 10,834 drug compounds and 143,517 question-answer
pairs. The code and data is available at
https://github.com/UCSD-AI4H/drugchat

---
