# Daily Papers - 2023-09-20

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-20)

Total papers: 6

---

## 1. [Language Modeling Is Compression](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.10668)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.10668](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10668)

**Authors**: Grégoire Delétang, Anian Ruoss, Paul-Ambroise Duquenne, Elliot Catt, Tim Genewein, Christopher Mattern, Jordi Grau-Moya, Li Kevin Wenliang, Matthew Aitchison, Laurent Orseau, Marcus Hutter, Joel Veness

**Published**: 2023-09-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 84

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/google-deepmind/language_modeling_is_compression)

### Abstract

It has long been established that predictive models can be transformed into
lossless compressors and vice versa. Incidentally, in recent years, the machine
learning community has focused on training increasingly large and powerful
self-supervised (language) models. Since these large language models exhibit
impressive predictive capabilities, they are well-positioned to be strong
compressors. In this work, we advocate for viewing the prediction problem
through the lens of compression and evaluate the compression capabilities of
large (foundation) models. We show that large language models are powerful
general-purpose predictors and that the compression viewpoint provides novel
insights into scaling laws, tokenization, and in-context learning. For example,
Chinchilla 70B, while trained primarily on text, compresses ImageNet patches to
43.4% and LibriSpeech samples to 16.4% of their raw size, beating
domain-specific compressors like PNG (58.5%) or FLAC (30.3%), respectively.
Finally, we show that the prediction-compression equivalence allows us to use
any compressor (like gzip) to build a conditional generative model.

---

## 2. [Q-Transformer: Scalable Offline Reinforcement Learning via
  Autoregressive Q-Functions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.10150)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.10150](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10150)

**Authors**: Yevgen Chebotar, Quan Vuong, Alex Irpan, Karol Hausman, Fei Xia, Yao Lu, Aviral Kumar, Tianhe Yu, Alexander Herzog, Karl Pertsch, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Julian Ibarz, Ofir Nachum, Sumedh Sontakke, Grecia Salazar, Huong T Tran, Jodilyn Peralta, Clayton Tan, Deeksha Manjunath, Jaspiar Singht, Brianna Zitkovich, Tomas Jackson, Kanishka Rao, Chelsea Finn, Sergey Levine

**Published**: 2023-09-18 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 26

### Abstract

In this work, we present a scalable reinforcement learning method for
training multi-task policies from large offline datasets that can leverage both
human demonstrations and autonomously collected data. Our method uses a
Transformer to provide a scalable representation for Q-functions trained via
offline temporal difference backups. We therefore refer to the method as
Q-Transformer. By discretizing each action dimension and representing the
Q-value of each action dimension as separate tokens, we can apply effective
high-capacity sequence modeling techniques for Q-learning. We present several
design decisions that enable good performance with offline RL training, and
show that Q-Transformer outperforms prior offline RL algorithms and imitation
learning techniques on a large diverse real-world robotic manipulation task
suite. The project's website and videos can be found at
https://q-transformer.github.io

---

## 3. [OpenBA: An Open-sourced 15B Bilingual Asymmetric seq2seq Model
  Pre-trained from Scratch](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.10706)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.10706](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10706)

**Authors**: Juntao Li, Zecheng Tang, Yuyang Ding, Pinzheng Wang, Pei Guo, Wangjie You, Dan Qiao, Wenliang Chen, Guohong Fu, Qiaoming Zhu, Guodong Zhou, Min Zhang

**Published**: 2023-09-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 17

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/opennlg/openba)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) with billions of parameters have demonstrated
outstanding performance on various natural language processing tasks. This
report presents OpenBA, an open-sourced 15B bilingual asymmetric seq2seq model,
to contribute an LLM variant to the Chinese-oriented open-source model
community. We enhance OpenBA with effective and efficient techniques as well as
adopt a three-stage training strategy to train the model from scratch. Our
solution can also achieve very competitive performance with only 380B tokens,
which is better than LLaMA-70B on the BELEBELE benchmark, BLOOM-176B on the
MMLU benchmark, GLM-130B on the C-Eval (hard) benchmark. This report provides
the main details to pre-train an analogous model, including pre-training data
processing, Bilingual Flan data collection, the empirical observations that
inspire our model architecture design, training objectives of different stages,
and other enhancement techniques. We have refactored our code to follow the
design principles of the Huggingface Transformers Library, making it more
convenient for developers to use, and released checkpoints of different
training stages at https://huggingface.co/openBA. More details of our project
are available at https://github.com/OpenNLG/openBA.git.

---

## 4. [SlimPajama-DC: Understanding Data Combinations for LLM Training](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.10818)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.10818](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10818)

**Authors**: Zhiqiang Shen, Tianhua Tao, Liqun Ma, Willie Neiswanger, Joel Hestness, Natalia Vassilieva, Daria Soboleva, Eric Xing

**Published**: 2023-09-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

This paper aims to understand the impacts of various data combinations (e.g.,
web text, wikipedia, github, books) on the training of large language models
using SlimPajama. SlimPajama is a rigorously deduplicated, multi-source
dataset, which has been refined and further deduplicated to 627B tokens from
the extensive 1.2T tokens RedPajama dataset contributed by Together. We've
termed our research as SlimPajama-DC, an empirical analysis designed to uncover
fundamental characteristics and best practices associated with employing
SlimPajama in the training of large language models. During our research with
SlimPajama, two pivotal observations emerged: (1) Global deduplication vs.
local deduplication. We analyze and discuss how global (across different
sources of datasets) and local (within the single source of dataset)
deduplications affect the performance of trained models. (2) Proportions of
high-quality/highly-deduplicated multi-source datasets in the combination. To
study this, we construct six configurations of SlimPajama dataset and train
individual ones using 1.3B Cerebras-GPT model with Alibi and SwiGLU. Our best
configuration outperforms the 1.3B model trained on RedPajama using the same
number of training tokens by a significant margin. All our 1.3B models are
trained on Cerebras 16times CS-2 cluster with a total of 80 PFLOP/s in bf16
mixed precision. We further extend our discoveries (such as increasing data
diversity is crucial after global deduplication) on a 7B model with large
batch-size training. Our models and the separate SlimPajama-DC datasets are
available at: https://huggingface.co/MBZUAI-LLM and
https://huggingface.co/datasets/cerebras/SlimPajama-627B.

---

## 5. [FoleyGen: Visually-Guided Audio Generation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.10537)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.10537](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10537)

**Authors**: Xinhao Mei, Varun Nagaraja, Gael Le Lan, Zhaoheng Ni, Ernie Chang, Yangyang Shi, Vikas Chandra

**Published**: 2023-09-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Recent advancements in audio generation have been spurred by the evolution of
large-scale deep learning models and expansive datasets. However, the task of
video-to-audio (V2A) generation continues to be a challenge, principally
because of the intricate relationship between the high-dimensional visual and
auditory data, and the challenges associated with temporal synchronization. In
this study, we introduce FoleyGen, an open-domain V2A generation system built
on a language modeling paradigm. FoleyGen leverages an off-the-shelf neural
audio codec for bidirectional conversion between waveforms and discrete tokens.
The generation of audio tokens is facilitated by a single Transformer model,
which is conditioned on visual features extracted from a visual encoder. A
prevalent problem in V2A generation is the misalignment of generated audio with
the visible actions in the video. To address this, we explore three novel
visual attention mechanisms. We further undertake an exhaustive evaluation of
multiple visual encoders, each pretrained on either single-modal or multi-modal
tasks. The experimental results on VGGSound dataset show that our proposed
FoleyGen outperforms previous systems across all objective metrics and human
evaluations.

---

## 6. [360^circ Reconstruction From a Single Image Using Space Carved
  Outpainting](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.10279)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.10279](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10279)

**Authors**: Nuri Ryu, Minsu Gong, Geonung Kim, Joo-Haeng Lee, Sunghyun Cho

**Published**: 2023-09-19 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-20 by AK

**Upvotes**: 6

### Abstract

We introduce POP3D, a novel framework that creates a full 360^circ-view 3D
model from a single image. POP3D resolves two prominent issues that limit the
single-view reconstruction. Firstly, POP3D offers substantial generalizability
to arbitrary categories, a trait that previous methods struggle to achieve.
Secondly, POP3D further improves reconstruction fidelity and naturalness, a
crucial aspect that concurrent works fall short of. Our approach marries the
strengths of four primary components: (1) a monocular depth and normal
predictor that serves to predict crucial geometric cues, (2) a space carving
method capable of demarcating the potentially unseen portions of the target
object, (3) a generative model pre-trained on a large-scale image dataset that
can complete unseen regions of the target, and (4) a neural implicit surface
reconstruction method tailored in reconstructing objects using RGB images along
with monocular geometric cues. The combination of these components enables
POP3D to readily generalize across various in-the-wild images and generate
state-of-the-art reconstructions, outperforming similar works by a significant
margin. Project page: http://cg.postech.ac.kr/research/POP3D

---
