# Daily Papers - 2023-09-27

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-27)

Total papers: 5

---

## 1. [QA-LoRA: Quantization-Aware Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.14717)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.14717](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.14717)

**Authors**: Yuhui Xu, Lingxi Xie, Xiaotao Gu, Xin Chen, Heng Chang, Hengheng Zhang, Zhensu Chen, Xiaopeng Zhang, Qi Tian

**Published**: 2023-09-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 46

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/yuhuixu1993/qa-lora)

### Abstract

Recently years have witnessed a rapid development of large language models
(LLMs). Despite the strong ability in many language-understanding tasks, the
heavy computational burden largely restricts the application of LLMs especially
when one needs to deploy them onto edge devices. In this paper, we propose a
quantization-aware low-rank adaptation (QA-LoRA) algorithm. The motivation lies
in the imbalanced degrees of freedom of quantization and adaptation, and the
solution is to use group-wise operators which increase the degree of freedom of
quantization meanwhile decreasing that of adaptation. QA-LoRA is easily
implemented with a few lines of code, and it equips the original LoRA with
two-fold abilities: (i) during fine-tuning, the LLM's weights are quantized
(e.g., into INT4) to reduce time and memory usage; (ii) after fine-tuning, the
LLM and auxiliary weights are naturally integrated into a quantized model
without loss of accuracy. We apply QA-LoRA to the LLaMA and LLaMA2 model
families and validate its effectiveness in different fine-tuning datasets and
downstream scenarios. Code will be made available at
https://github.com/yuhuixu1993/qa-lora.

---

## 2. [LAVIE: High-Quality Video Generation with Cascaded Latent Diffusion
  Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.15103)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.15103](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.15103)

**Authors**: Yaohui Wang, Xinyuan Chen, Xin Ma, Shangchen Zhou, Ziqi Huang, Yi Wang, Ceyuan Yang, Yinan He, Jiashuo Yu, Peiqing Yang, Yuwei Guo, Tianxing Wu, Chenyang Si, Yuming Jiang, Cunjian Chen, Chen Change Loy, Bo Dai, Dahua Lin, Yu Qiao, Ziwei Liu

**Published**: 2023-09-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 43

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/Vchitect/LaVie)

### Abstract

This work aims to learn a high-quality text-to-video (T2V) generative model
by leveraging a pre-trained text-to-image (T2I) model as a basis. It is a
highly desirable yet challenging task to simultaneously a) accomplish the
synthesis of visually realistic and temporally coherent videos while b)
preserving the strong creative generation nature of the pre-trained T2I model.
To this end, we propose LaVie, an integrated video generation framework that
operates on cascaded video latent diffusion models, comprising a base T2V
model, a temporal interpolation model, and a video super-resolution model. Our
key insights are two-fold: 1) We reveal that the incorporation of simple
temporal self-attentions, coupled with rotary positional encoding, adequately
captures the temporal correlations inherent in video data. 2) Additionally, we
validate that the process of joint image-video fine-tuning plays a pivotal role
in producing high-quality and creative outcomes. To enhance the performance of
LaVie, we contribute a comprehensive and diverse video dataset named Vimeo25M,
consisting of 25 million text-video pairs that prioritize quality, diversity,
and aesthetic appeal. Extensive experiments demonstrate that LaVie achieves
state-of-the-art performance both quantitatively and qualitatively.
Furthermore, we showcase the versatility of pre-trained LaVie models in various
long video generation and personalized video synthesis applications.

---

## 3. [DeepSpeed Ulysses: System Optimizations for Enabling Training of Extreme
  Long Sequence Transformer Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.14509)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.14509](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.14509)

**Authors**: Sam Ade Jacobs, Masahiro Tanaka, Chengming Zhang, Minjia Zhang, Leon Song, Samyam Rajbhandari, Yuxiong He

**Published**: 2023-09-25 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 21

### Abstract

Computation in a typical Transformer-based large language model (LLM) can be
characterized by batch size, hidden dimension, number of layers, and sequence
length. Until now, system works for accelerating LLM training have focused on
the first three dimensions: data parallelism for batch size, tensor parallelism
for hidden size and pipeline parallelism for model depth or layers. These
widely studied forms of parallelism are not targeted or optimized for long
sequence Transformer models. Given practical application needs for long
sequence LLM, renewed attentions are being drawn to sequence parallelism.
However, existing works in sequence parallelism are constrained by
memory-communication inefficiency, limiting their scalability to long sequence
large models. In this work, we introduce DeepSpeed-Ulysses, a novel, portable
and effective methodology for enabling highly efficient and scalable LLM
training with extremely long sequence length. DeepSpeed-Ulysses at its core
partitions input data along the sequence dimension and employs an efficient
all-to-all collective communication for attention computation. Theoretical
communication analysis shows that whereas other methods incur communication
overhead as sequence length increases, DeepSpeed-Ulysses maintains constant
communication volume when sequence length and compute devices are increased
proportionally. Furthermore, experimental evaluations show that
DeepSpeed-Ulysses trains 2.5X faster with 4X longer sequence length than the
existing method SOTA baseline.

---

## 4. [Efficient Post-training Quantization with FP8 Formats](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.14592)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.14592](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.14592)

**Authors**: Haihao Shen, Naveen Mellempudi, Xin He, Qun Gao, Chang Wang, Mengni Wang

**Published**: 2023-09-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 11

### Abstract

Recent advances in deep learning methods such as LLMs and Diffusion models
have created a need for improved quantization methods that can meet the
computational demands of these modern architectures while maintaining accuracy.
Towards this goal, we study the advantages of FP8 data formats for
post-training quantization across 75 unique network architectures covering a
wide range of tasks, including machine translation, language modeling, text
generation, image classification, generation, and segmentation. We examine
three different FP8 representations (E5M2, E4M3, and E3M4) to study the effects
of varying degrees of trade-off between dynamic range and precision on model
accuracy. Based on our extensive study, we developed a quantization workflow
that generalizes across different network architectures. Our empirical results
show that FP8 formats outperform INT8 in multiple aspects, including workload
coverage (92.64% vs. 65.87%), model accuracy and suitability for a broader
range of operations. Furthermore, our findings suggest that E4M3 is better
suited for NLP models, whereas E3M4 performs marginally better than E4M3 on
computer vision tasks. The code is publicly available on Intel Neural
Compressor: https://github.com/intel/neural-compressor.

---

## 5. [Attention Satisfies: A Constraint-Satisfaction Lens on Factual Errors of
  Language Models](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.15098)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.15098](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.15098)

**Authors**: Mert Yuksekgonul, Varun Chandrasekaran, Erik Jones, Suriya Gunasekar, Ranjita Naik, Hamid Palangi, Ece Kamar, Besmira Nushi

**Published**: 2023-09-26 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-27 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/mechanistic-error-probe)

### Abstract

We investigate the internal behavior of Transformer-based Large Language
Models (LLMs) when they generate factually incorrect text. We propose modeling
factual queries as Constraint Satisfaction Problems and use this framework to
investigate how the model interacts internally with factual constraints.
Specifically, we discover a strong positive relation between the model's
attention to constraint tokens and the factual accuracy of its responses. In
our curated suite of 11 datasets with over 40,000 prompts, we study the task of
predicting factual errors with the Llama-2 family across all scales (7B, 13B,
70B). We propose SAT Probe, a method probing self-attention patterns, that can
predict constraint satisfaction and factual errors, and allows early error
identification. The approach and findings demonstrate how using the mechanistic
understanding of factuality in LLMs can enhance reliability.

---
