# Daily Papers - 2023-09-07

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-07)

Total papers: 8

---

## 1. [SLiMe: Segment Like Me](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.03179)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.03179](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.03179)

**Authors**: Aliasghar Khani, Saeid Asgari Taghanaki, Aditya Sanghi, Ali Mahdavi Amiri, Ghassan Hamarneh

**Published**: 2023-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 31

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/aliasgharkhani/slime)

### Abstract

Significant strides have been made using large vision-language models, like
Stable Diffusion (SD), for a variety of downstream tasks, including image
editing, image correspondence, and 3D shape generation. Inspired by these
advancements, we explore leveraging these extensive vision-language models for
segmenting images at any desired granularity using as few as one annotated
sample by proposing SLiMe. SLiMe frames this problem as an optimization task.
Specifically, given a single training image and its segmentation mask, we first
extract attention maps, including our novel "weighted accumulated
self-attention map" from the SD prior. Then, using the extracted attention
maps, the text embeddings of Stable Diffusion are optimized such that, each of
them, learn about a single segmented region from the training image. These
learned embeddings then highlight the segmented region in the attention maps,
which in turn can then be used to derive the segmentation map. This enables
SLiMe to segment any real-world image during inference with the granularity of
the segmented region in the training image, using just one example. Moreover,
leveraging additional training data when available, i.e. few-shot, improves the
performance of SLiMe. We carried out a knowledge-rich set of experiments
examining various design factors and showed that SLiMe outperforms other
existing one-shot and few-shot segmentation methods.

---

## 2. [GPT Can Solve Mathematical Problems Without a Calculator](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.03241)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.03241](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.03241)

**Authors**: Zhen Yang, Ming Ding, Qingsong Lv, Zhihuan Jiang, Zehai He, Yuyi Guo, Jinfeng Bai, Jie Tang

**Published**: 2023-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 19

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/thudm/mathglm)

### Abstract

Previous studies have typically assumed that large language models are unable
to accurately perform arithmetic operations, particularly multiplication of >8
digits, and operations involving decimals and fractions, without the use of
calculator tools. This paper aims to challenge this misconception. With
sufficient training data, a 2 billion-parameter language model can accurately
perform multi-digit arithmetic operations with almost 100% accuracy without
data leakage, significantly surpassing GPT-4 (whose multi-digit multiplication
accuracy is only 4.3%). We also demonstrate that our MathGLM, fine-tuned from
GLM-10B on a dataset with additional multi-step arithmetic operations and math
problems described in text, achieves similar performance to GPT-4 on a
5,000-samples Chinese math problem test set.

---

## 3. [Scaling Autoregressive Multi-Modal Models: Pretraining and Instruction
  Tuning](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.02591)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.02591](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02591)

**Authors**: Lili Yu, Bowen Shi, Ramakanth Pasunuru, Benjamin Muller, Olga Golovneva, Tianlu Wang, Arun Babu, Binh Tang, Brian Karrer, Shelly Sheynin, Candace Ross, Adam Polyak, Russell Howes, Vasu Sharma, Puxin Xu, Hovhannes Tamoyan, Oron Ashual, Uriel Singer, Shang-Wen Li, Susan Zhang, Richard James, Gargi Ghosh, Yaniv Taigman, Maryam Fazel-Zarandi, Asli Celikyilmaz, Luke Zettlemoyer, Armen Aghajanyan

**Published**: 2023-09-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 16

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/kyegomez/CM3Leon)

### Abstract

We present CM3Leon (pronounced "Chameleon"), a retrieval-augmented,
token-based, decoder-only multi-modal language model capable of generating and
infilling both text and images. CM3Leon uses the CM3 multi-modal architecture
but additionally shows the extreme benefits of scaling up and tuning on more
diverse instruction-style data. It is the first multi-modal model trained with
a recipe adapted from text-only language models, including a large-scale
retrieval-augmented pre-training stage and a second multi-task supervised
fine-tuning (SFT) stage. It is also a general-purpose model that can do both
text-to-image and image-to-text generation, allowing us to introduce
self-contained contrastive decoding methods that produce high-quality outputs.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that this recipe is highly effective for
multi-modal models. CM3Leon achieves state-of-the-art performance in
text-to-image generation with 5x less training compute than comparable methods
(zero-shot MS-COCO FID of 4.88). After SFT, CM3Leon can also demonstrate
unprecedented levels of controllability in tasks ranging from language-guided
image editing to image-controlled generation and segmentation.

---

## 4. [Matcha-TTS: A fast TTS architecture with conditional flow matching](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.03199)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.03199](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.03199)

**Authors**: Shivam Mehta, Ruibo Tu, Jonas Beskow, Éva Székely, Gustav Eje Henter

**Published**: 2023-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/shivammehta25/Matcha-TTS)

### Abstract

We introduce Matcha-TTS, a new encoder-decoder architecture for speedy TTS
acoustic modelling, trained using optimal-transport conditional flow matching
(OT-CFM). This yields an ODE-based decoder capable of high output quality in
fewer synthesis steps than models trained using score matching. Careful design
choices additionally ensure each synthesis step is fast to run. The method is
probabilistic, non-autoregressive, and learns to speak from scratch without
external alignments. Compared to strong pre-trained baseline models, the
Matcha-TTS system has the smallest memory footprint, rivals the speed of the
fastest models on long utterances, and attains the highest mean opinion score
in a listening test. Please see https://shivammehta25.github.io/Matcha-TTS/ for
audio examples, code, and pre-trained models.

---

## 5. [Physically Grounded Vision-Language Models for Robotic Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.02561)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.02561](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02561)

**Authors**: Jensen Gao, Bidipta Sarkar, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Jiajun Wu, Brian Ichter, Anirudha Majumdar, Dorsa Sadigh

**Published**: 2023-09-05 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 9

### Abstract

Recent advances in vision-language models (VLMs) have led to improved
performance on tasks such as visual question answering and image captioning.
Consequently, these models are now well-positioned to reason about the physical
world, particularly within domains such as robotic manipulation. However,
current VLMs are limited in their understanding of the physical concepts (e.g.,
material, fragility) of common objects, which restricts their usefulness for
robotic manipulation tasks that involve interaction and physical reasoning
about such objects. To address this limitation, we propose PhysObjects, an
object-centric dataset of 36.9K crowd-sourced and 417K automated physical
concept annotations of common household objects. We demonstrate that
fine-tuning a VLM on PhysObjects improves its understanding of physical object
concepts, by capturing human priors of these concepts from visual appearance.
We incorporate this physically-grounded VLM in an interactive framework with a
large language model-based robotic planner, and show improved planning
performance on tasks that require reasoning about physical object concepts,
compared to baselines that do not leverage physically-grounded VLMs. We
additionally illustrate the benefits of our physically-grounded VLM on a real
robot, where it improves task success rates. We release our dataset and provide
further details and visualizations of our results at
https://iliad.stanford.edu/pg-vlm/.

---

## 6. [ResFields: Residual Neural Fields for Spatiotemporal Signals](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.03160)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.03160](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.03160)

**Authors**: Marko Mihajlovic, Sergey Prokudin, Marc Pollefeys, Siyu Tang

**Published**: 2023-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/markomih/ResFields)

### Abstract

Neural fields, a category of neural networks trained to represent
high-frequency signals, have gained significant attention in recent years due
to their impressive performance in modeling complex 3D data, especially large
neural signed distance (SDFs) or radiance fields (NeRFs) via a single
multi-layer perceptron (MLP). However, despite the power and simplicity of
representing signals with an MLP, these methods still face challenges when
modeling large and complex temporal signals due to the limited capacity of
MLPs. In this paper, we propose an effective approach to address this
limitation by incorporating temporal residual layers into neural fields, dubbed
ResFields, a novel class of networks specifically designed to effectively
represent complex temporal signals. We conduct a comprehensive analysis of the
properties of ResFields and propose a matrix factorization technique to reduce
the number of trainable parameters and enhance generalization capabilities.
Importantly, our formulation seamlessly integrates with existing techniques and
consistently improves results across various challenging tasks: 2D video
approximation, dynamic shape modeling via temporal SDFs, and dynamic NeRF
reconstruction. Lastly, we demonstrate the practical utility of ResFields by
showcasing its effectiveness in capturing dynamic 3D scenes from sparse sensory
inputs of a lightweight capture system.

---

## 7. [Bayes' Rays: Uncertainty Quantification for Neural Radiance Fields](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.03185)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.03185](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.03185)

**Authors**: Lily Goli, Cody Reading, Silvia Selllán, Alec Jacobson, Andrea Tagliasacchi

**Published**: 2023-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/BayesRays/BayesRays)

### Abstract

Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have shown promise in applications like view
synthesis and depth estimation, but learning from multiview images faces
inherent uncertainties. Current methods to quantify them are either heuristic
or computationally demanding. We introduce BayesRays, a post-hoc framework to
evaluate uncertainty in any pre-trained NeRF without modifying the training
process. Our method establishes a volumetric uncertainty field using spatial
perturbations and a Bayesian Laplace approximation. We derive our algorithm
statistically and show its superior performance in key metrics and
applications. Additional results available at: https://bayesrays.github.io.

---

## 8. [MyoDex: A Generalizable Prior for Dexterous Manipulation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.03130)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.03130](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.03130)

**Authors**: Vittorio Caggiano, Sudeep Dasari, Vikash Kumar

**Published**: 2023-09-06 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-07 by AK

**Upvotes**: 3

### Abstract

Human dexterity is a hallmark of motor control. Our hands can rapidly
synthesize new behaviors despite the complexity (multi-articular and
multi-joints, with 23 joints controlled by more than 40 muscles) of
musculoskeletal sensory-motor circuits. In this work, we take inspiration from
how human dexterity builds on a diversity of prior experiences, instead of
being acquired through a single task. Motivated by this observation, we set out
to develop agents that can build upon their previous experience to quickly
acquire new (previously unattainable) behaviors. Specifically, our approach
leverages multi-task learning to implicitly capture task-agnostic behavioral
priors (MyoDex) for human-like dexterity, using a physiologically realistic
human hand model - MyoHand. We demonstrate MyoDex's effectiveness in few-shot
generalization as well as positive transfer to a large repertoire of unseen
dexterous manipulation tasks. Agents leveraging MyoDex can solve approximately
3x more tasks, and 4x faster in comparison to a distillation baseline. While
prior work has synthesized single musculoskeletal control behaviors, MyoDex is
the first generalizable manipulation prior that catalyzes the learning of
dexterous physiological control across a large variety of contact-rich
behaviors. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of our paradigms beyond
musculoskeletal control towards the acquisition of dexterity in 24 DoF Adroit
Hand. Website: https://sites.google.com/view/myodex

---
