# Daily Papers - 2023-09-17

> source: [Hugging Face Daily Papers](https://huggingface.co/papers/date/2023-09-17)

Total papers: 5

---

## 1. [Investigating Answerability of LLMs for Long-Form Question Answering](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.08210)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.08210](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08210)

**Authors**: Meghana Moorthy Bhat, Rui Meng, Ye Liu, Yingbo Zhou, Semih Yavuz

**Published**: 2023-09-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 15

### Abstract

As we embark on a new era of LLMs, it becomes increasingly crucial to
understand their capabilities, limitations, and differences. Toward making
further progress in this direction, we strive to build a deeper understanding
of the gaps between massive LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT) and smaller yet effective
open-source LLMs and their distilled counterparts. To this end, we specifically
focus on long-form question answering (LFQA) because it has several practical
and impactful applications (e.g., troubleshooting, customer service, etc.) yet
is still understudied and challenging for LLMs. We propose a
question-generation method from abstractive summaries and show that generating
follow-up questions from summaries of long documents can create a challenging
setting for LLMs to reason and infer from long contexts. Our experimental
results confirm that: (1) our proposed method of generating questions from
abstractive summaries pose a challenging setup for LLMs and shows performance
gaps between LLMs like ChatGPT and open-source LLMs (Alpaca, Llama) (2)
open-source LLMs exhibit decreased reliance on context for generated questions
from the original document, but their generation capabilities drop
significantly on generated questions from summaries -- especially for longer
contexts (>1024 tokens)

---

## 2. [LASER: LLM Agent with State-Space Exploration for Web Navigation](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.08172)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.08172](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08172)

**Authors**: Kaixin Ma, Hongming Zhang, Hongwei Wang, Xiaoman Pan, Dong Yu

**Published**: 2023-09-15 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 14

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/mayer123/laser)

### Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have been successfully adapted for interactive
decision-making tasks like web navigation. While achieving decent performance,
previous methods implicitly assume a forward-only execution mode for the model,
where they only provide oracle trajectories as in-context examples to teach the
model how to reason in the interactive environment. Consequently, the model
could not handle more challenging scenarios not covered in the in-context
examples, e.g., mistakes, leading to sub-optimal performance. To address this
issue, we propose to model the interactive task as state space exploration,
where the LLM agent transitions among a pre-defined set of states by performing
actions to complete the task. This formulation enables flexible back-tracking,
allowing the model to easily recover from errors. We evaluate our proposed LLM
Agent with State-Space ExploRation (LASER) on the WebShop task. Experimental
results show that our LASER agent significantly outperforms previous methods
and closes the gap with human performance on the web navigation task.

---

## 3. [Leveraging Contextual Information for Effective Entity Salience
  Detection](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07990)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07990](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07990)

**Authors**: Rajarshi Bhowmik, Marco Ponza, Atharva Tendle, Anant Gupta, Rebecca Jiang, Xingyu Lu, Qian Zhao, Daniel Preotiuc-Pietro

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

In text documents such as news articles, the content and key events usually
revolve around a subset of all the entities mentioned in a document. These
entities, often deemed as salient entities, provide useful cues of the
aboutness of a document to a reader. Identifying the salience of entities was
found helpful in several downstream applications such as search, ranking, and
entity-centric summarization, among others. Prior work on salient entity
detection mainly focused on machine learning models that require heavy feature
engineering. We show that fine-tuning medium-sized language models with a
cross-encoder style architecture yields substantial performance gains over
feature engineering approaches. To this end, we conduct a comprehensive
benchmarking of four publicly available datasets using models representative of
the medium-sized pre-trained language model family. Additionally, we show that
zero-shot prompting of instruction-tuned language models yields inferior
results, indicating the task's uniqueness and complexity.

---

## 4. [Language Embedded Radiance Fields for Zero-Shot Task-Oriented Grasping](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07970)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07970](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07970)

**Authors**: Adam Rashid, Satvik Sharma, Chung Min Kim, Justin Kerr, Lawrence Chen, Angjoo Kanazawa, Ken Goldberg

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 8

### Abstract

Grasping objects by a specific part is often crucial for safety and for
executing downstream tasks. Yet, learning-based grasp planners lack this
behavior unless they are trained on specific object part data, making it a
significant challenge to scale object diversity. Instead, we propose LERF-TOGO,
Language Embedded Radiance Fields for Task-Oriented Grasping of Objects, which
uses vision-language models zero-shot to output a grasp distribution over an
object given a natural language query. To accomplish this, we first reconstruct
a LERF of the scene, which distills CLIP embeddings into a multi-scale 3D
language field queryable with text. However, LERF has no sense of objectness,
meaning its relevancy outputs often return incomplete activations over an
object which are insufficient for subsequent part queries. LERF-TOGO mitigates
this lack of spatial grouping by extracting a 3D object mask via DINO features
and then conditionally querying LERF on this mask to obtain a semantic
distribution over the object with which to rank grasps from an off-the-shelf
grasp planner. We evaluate LERF-TOGO's ability to grasp task-oriented object
parts on 31 different physical objects, and find it selects grasps on the
correct part in 81% of all trials and grasps successfully in 69%. See the
project website at: lerftogo.github.io

---

## 5. [A Data Source for Reasoning Embodied Agents](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07974)

**ArXiv ID**: [2309.07974](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07974)

**Authors**: Jack Lanchantin, Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Gabriel Synnaeve, Yuxuan Sun, Kavya Srinet, Arthur Szlam

**Published**: 2023-09-14 | **Submitted**: 2023-09-17 by AK

**Upvotes**: 7

**Links**: [GitHub](https://github.com/facebookresearch/neuralmemory)

### Abstract

Recent progress in using machine learning models for reasoning tasks has been
driven by novel model architectures, large-scale pre-training protocols, and
dedicated reasoning datasets for fine-tuning. In this work, to further pursue
these advances, we introduce a new data generator for machine reasoning that
integrates with an embodied agent. The generated data consists of templated
text queries and answers, matched with world-states encoded into a database.
The world-states are a result of both world dynamics and the actions of the
agent. We show the results of several baseline models on instantiations of
train sets. These include pre-trained language models fine-tuned on a
text-formatted representation of the database, and graph-structured
Transformers operating on a knowledge-graph representation of the database. We
find that these models can answer some questions about the world-state, but
struggle with others. These results hint at new research directions in
designing neural reasoning models and database representations. Code to
generate the data will be released at github.com/facebookresearch/neuralmemory

---
